 You will also wear a red shawl; and what if it hang too far down?
 "Stop! stop!" and the words came quite clear, though they were like the croak of a frog, or the wail of a bird.
 "A grave! dig me a grave!"
 He nodded, and pointed to Anne Lisbeth, crying out, "Hold fast! hold fast! and then you may ride again in a nobleman's carriage, and forget your child."
 But inside the church the pastor stood in the pulpit, and spoke very loudly and angrily.
 He said that all men were wicked, and God would punish them for their sins, and that the wicked, when they died, would be cast into hell, to burn for ever and ever.
 He spoke very excitedly, saying that their evil propensities would not be destroyed, nor would the fire be extinguished, and they should never find rest.
 Like a ferocious animal, one of them rose out of his sleep and uttered a horrible cry, and gave his comrade a violent dig in the ribs with his pointed elbow, and this one turned round in his sleep: "Be quiet, monster- sleep!
 This happens every night!"
 "Every night!" repeated the other.
 "Yes, every night he comes and tortures me!
 You can snore; you are snoring the whole night, and I hardly a quarter of an hour!"
 And the blood rose to the head of the excited criminal; he threw himself upon his comrade, and beat him with his clenced fist in the face.
 Well, I understand that it is a personal slight to me," cried the beetle.
 "It is done to annoy me, so I intend to go out into the world and seek my fortune."
 "You're a rude fellow," cried the beetle, as he walked out of the stable; and then he flew for a short distance, till he found himself in a beautiful flower-garden, all fragrant with roses and lavender.
 Towards morning he crept out of his hiding-place, feeling in a very bad temper with the climate.
 This vexes me more than anything.
 But it is useless to look for sympathy in this world.
 "Thou child of perdition, I will yet carry out my purpose!" cried the Bishop of Borglum.
 "Now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon thee, to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee!"
 "Thou Borglum bishop," he exclaims, "I shall subdue thee after all!
 Under the shield of the Pope, the law cannot reach thee; but Jens Glob shall reach thee!"
 But the buckwheat spread itself out with pride, and said, "Stupid tree; he is so old that grass grows out of his body."
 "I have no occasion to do so," replied the buckwheat.
 "But I will not bend my head," said the buckwheat.
 "Inferior, indeed!" said the buckwheat.
 "Now I intend to have a peep into heaven."
 But Marguerite did not answer him; she was offended that he should call her a woman when she was only a girl; and there is a great difference.
 He had enough to live upon, and something to spare; but owing to his refined tastes the least thing in the world annoyed him.
 If he went to a theatre of an evening, instead of enjoying himself he would be quite annoyed if the machinist had put too strong a light into one side of the moon, or if the representations of the sky hung over the scenes when they ought to have hung behind them; or if a palm-tree was introduced into a scene representing the Zoological Gardens of Berlin, or a cactus in a view of Tyrol, or a beech-tree in the north of Norway.
 "Not all can be born cucumbers; there must be other things, too.
 He had been born old, and did not at all resemble the birds flying in the air- the sparrows, and the swallows; no, he despised them, these mean little piping birds, these common whistlers.
 He admitted that the pigeons, large and white and shining like mother-o'-pearl, looked like a kind of weather-cock; but they were fat and stupid, and all their thoughts and endeavours were directed to filling themselves with food, and besides, they were tiresome things to converse with.
 All this was new and interesting; that is, for the first time, but afterwards, as the weather-cock found out, they repeated themselves and always told the same stories, and that's very tedious, and there was no one with whom one could associate, for one and all were stale and small-minded.
 "The world is no good!" he said.
 "Everything in it is so stupid."
 The weather-cock was puffed up, and that quality would have made him interesting in the eyes of the cucumber if it had known it, but it had eyes only for the yard cock, who was now in the yard with it.
 "What do you think of that crowing?" said the yard cock to the hens and chickens.
 "Everything is very stupid," the weather-cock said to himself.
 "The yard cock lays no eggs, and I am too lazy to do so; if I liked, I could lay a wind-egg.
 But the world is not worth even a wind-egg.
 Everything is so stupid!
 I don't want to sit here any longer."
 But the tulips stood more stiffly than ever, their faces were pointed and red, because they were vexed.
 "Did I not say so?" said the darning-needle, "I know I am too fine for such work as that."
 And they hacked away at him, and they pulled at him, and ate him up, because of the little bruise.
 But now she had to come out, and they tugged at her, and pulled her about, and ate her up.
 "Yes; but what do you think it is?" said Kribble-Krabble.
 "Well," quoth Jack the Dullard, "If I can't have a horse, I'll take the Billy-goat, who belongs to me, and he can carry me very well!"
 He was gentle as a child as long as the sullen mood did not come over him; but when it came he was fierce, became as strong as a giant, and ran about in the wood like a chased deer.
 "What a buzzing and a rumbling there is in the elfin hill," said one of the lizards; "I have not been able to close my eyes for two nights on account of the noise; I might just as well have had the toothache, for that always keeps me awake."
 "Boys," said the old man, "a hole goes in, and a hill stands out; have you no eyes in your heads?"
 "Take care," said the old man, "or people will think you have not been well brought up."
 "Feet off the table-cloth!" said the old goblin.
 "What tricks have you been playing?" said the old goblin.
 But her wicked brother scolded her, and asked her if she was going mad.
 He could not imagine why she was weeping over that flower-pot, and it annoyed him.
 "It would take too much time to explain," said the stork, flying quickly away.
 "'I certainly am vexed,' said the basket; 'inwardly vexed, more than any one can imagine.
 Then I would clench my fist, and cry, "We will kill these Turks!"
 But the goblin felt very angry that any man should venture to say such things to a huckster who was a householder and sold the best butter.
 "Look out for the drumsticks," replied Peter; and, small as he was, he ran up boldly, and gave the foremost such a punch in the body with his fist, that the fellow lost his legs and tumbled over, and the others took their legs off with themselves very rapidly.
 "Yes, we have my boy," she retorted.
 "It is shameful that the lamps are not lighted here, and it is as muddy as if one were walking in a marsh."
 "I don't understand your outlandish talk," he cried at last, angrily turning his back upon them.
 But I cannot bear even that, and it was very foolish to give us punch and hot salmon; I shall speak about it to our hostess, the agent's lady.
 His first feeling was one of anger, and then his spirits sank below zero.
 The boys carried him into a very elegant room, where a stout, pleasant-looking lady received them, but she was not at all gratified to find that they had brought a lark- a common field-bird as she called it.
 And then Martha repeated to the laundress, in a very few minutes, all that the mayor had said to her boy, which she had overheard; and she felt very angry that any man could speak, as he had done, of a mother to her own child, about the few drops she had taken; and she was still more angry because, on that very day, the mayor was going to have a dinner-party, at which there would be wine, strong, rich wine, drunk by the bottle.
 "Many will take more than they ought, but they don't call that drinking!
 They are all right, you are good for nothing indeed!" cried Martha indignantly.
 Her Puggie had seated itself on the ground while she wrote, and growled; for the dog had come with her for amusement and for the sake of its health; and then the bare floor ought not to be offered to a visitor.
 "It is stupid nonsense to allow yourself to shoot out in this way; we are not here to support you."
 Ignorance upon ignorance indeed!"
 "How should there be room in a little nut like this for the best thing of all?
 The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, but he sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared that was horribly rude.
 "I jumped highest, after all," said the Flea.
 I jumped to the highest; but in this world a body is required if one wishes to be seen."
 And he too said, "Body is required! body is required!"
 "Her pearl must not be missing; it must be there, that the crown, when worn, may be complete.
 "He is making fools of us," said they all; then the shoemakers took their straps, and the tanners their leather aprons, and began to beat Great Claus.
 "Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him; "yes, we'll mark your skin for you, till it is black and blue."
 "Out of the town with him," said they.
 "Ah," said he, as he came to his house; "Little Claus shall pay me for this; I will beat him to death."
 "There," cried he, "now you cannot make a fool of me again;" and then he went home.
 The landlord was a rich man, and a good man too; but as passionate as if he had been made of pepper and snuff.
 Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir he flew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face; it struck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, for she was only seated there, not tied in.
 "You shall pay for this," said Great Claus, as soon as he got into the highroad, "that you shall, Little Claus."
 "You have played me another trick," said he.
 "First, I killed all my horses, and then my old grandmother, and it is all your fault; but you shall not make a fool of me any more."
 So he laid hold of Little Claus round the body, and pushed him into the sack, which he took on his shoulders, saying, "Now I'm going to drown you in the river.
 But the professor did not approve of such nonsense, so he clapped his hands on the nettle to stop it.
 Then the leaves, which are its fingers, stung him so sharply that he has never ventured to touch a nettle since."
 So she took the doll out, who looked quite cross, and said not a single word, for she was angry at being turned out of her bed.
 "Why did not somebody tell me?"
 "Now don't be obstinate, or I shall bite you with my white teeth.
 "You must not shout so," said the sentry.
 "Certainly you must have some money," she said.
 "The child is mine," she answered; "I can murder him if I like, and you too, Giannina."
 And then she swung about the fire-pot.
 "Why don't you go?" said the painter.
 "You bad boy! how did you entice her out?
 The painter, however, consoled the little fellow, and tried to soften the lady's anger; but she would not be pacified till her husband returned with Bellissima, who had been with the police.
 He tied her head and tail; but she barked and jumped, and so pulled and tightened the string, that she was nearly strangled; and just then her mistress walked in.
 "You wicked boy! the poor little creature!" was all she could utter.
 She pushed the boy from her, thrust him away with her foot, called him a most ungrateful, good-for-nothing, wicked boy, and forbade him to enter the house again.
 "But I am the eldest!" exclaimed the third.
 Then they all got excited; they hit out with their wings, pecked with their beaks, and flop! one after another was thrown out of the nest.
 There they lay with their anger, holding their heads on one side and blinking the eye that was turned upwards.
 I know nothing of any nightingale.
 Is there such a bird in my empire? and even in my garden?
 I will hear the nightingale, she must be here this evening; she has my highest favor; and if she does not come, the whole court shall be trampled upon after supper is ended."
 Sing! sing!"
 "Prenez garde aux enfants!" said father owl; "children should not hear such things."
 He's angry to-day.
 "'Snik, snak, snurre, bassellurre!
 I'm master of this house!
 Snikke, snakke, snak!
 Oh! pray let me out, And like a lamb led to slaughter I'll betroth you, no doubt, To my daughter.'"
 Hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from our lips, and we feel the same sensation if we kiss either; and Anthony's kiss was now the kiss of hatred, as it had once been the kiss of love.
 I will destroy everything that can remind me of her, or of Lady Halle, or Lady Venus, the heathen woman.
 I will break down the apple-tree, and tear it up by the roots; never more shall it blossom or bear fruit."
 "He annoys me with his loud crowing," said the Portuguese duck; "but, still, he's a handsome bird, there's no denying that, although he's not a drake.
 "I wonder what those two Chinese are whispering about," whispered one duck to another; "they are always doing it, and it annoys me.
 "Well, then, why do you lie in my way?" she retorted, "you must not be so touchy.
 "Now I want rest after my dinner," said the Portuguese; "you must conform to the rules of the house while you are here.
 When madam awoke afterwards, there he stood before her with a little corn he had found, and laid it at her feet; but as she had not slept well, she was naturally in a bad temper.
 "Give that to a chicken," she said, "and don't be always standing in my way."
 "Done!" repeated the Portuguese duck, "your mode of expressing yourself is not very polite.
 "Impertinent creature!" exclaimed the Portuguese duck: "would you compare me with the cat- that beast of prey?
 So saying, she made a bite at the little singing-bird's head, and he fell dead on the ground.
 "You'll kill me with your crowing," she cried, "it's all your fault.
 He's lost his life, and I'm very near losing mine."
 "I deserved the first prize, and not the second," said the snail.
 "Get away; don't come so near me," said the garter, "you appear to me quite like a man."
 "What! is he going to propose to me?" said the scissors, and she became so angry that she cut too sharply into the shirt collar, and it was obliged to be thrown by as useless.
 "Away, away," barked the old yard-dog.
 "In what manner did you leave the world?" he asked, just for the sake of saying something; for it made him feel very weary to stand there and wait.
 "I don't want to fly," said one of the young storks, creeping back into the nest.
 "I don't care about going to warm countries."
 "Shall we fly down, and pick their eyes out?" asked the young storks.
 "But may we not punish those naughty boys?" asked the young storks.
 "We will revenge ourselves," whispered the young storks to each other, as they again joined the exercising.
 The young storks were very angry, and grew worse as they grew older; so at last their mother was obliged to promise that they should be revenged, but not until the day of their departure.
 "But the naughty boy, who began the song first, what shall we do to him?" cried the young storks.
 "Go out of my sight," said the emperor, for he was very angry; and both the princess and the swineherd were banished from the empire.
 "I have now learnt to despise you," he said.
 I must get higher yet; I feel a great restlessness and longing."
 "That is nothing to you," replied the witch; "you have the money, now give me the tinder-box."
 "I tell you what," said the soldier, "if you don't tell me what you are going to do with it, I will draw my sword and cut off your head."
 "No," said the witch.
 "Tin soldier," said the goblin, "don't wish for what does not belong to you.
 "Much good that will be to me," said the top; and they spoke to each other no more.
 "One egg is not hatched yet," said the duck, "it will not break.
 The ducklings did as they were bid, but the other duck stared, and said, "Look, here comes another brood, as if there were not enough of us already! and what a queer looking object one of them is; we don't want him here," and then one flew out and bit him in the neck.
 "I will conquer God!" said the prince.
 "I have sworn it: my will must be done!"
 They buzzed round the prince and stung his face and hands; angrily he drew his sword and brandished it, but he only touched the air and did not hit the gnats.
 Mad with pain, he tore off the coverings and his clothes too, flinging them far away, and danced about before the eyes of his ferocious soldiers, who now mocked at him, the mad prince, who wished to make war with God, and was overcome by a single little gnat.
