 There lay fragments of plates, pieces of plaster, rags, old hats, and other rubbish not pleasant to see.
 "Well, well," he said; and with that he walked out of the room.
 "Poor, despised herbs," said the apple-branch; "there is really a difference between them and such as I am.
 "You do not see very far, nor very clearly," he said to the apple-branch.
 "Which is the despised plant you so specially pity?"
 "No one ever places it in a nosegay; it is often trodden under foot, there are so many of them; and when they run to seed, they have flowers like wool, which fly away in little pieces over the roads, and cling to the dresses of the people.
 They are only weeds; but of course there must be weeds.
 What he thought was sufficiently expressed in his features and movements: "Miserable beggars, who are looking in, you are nothing in comparison to me."
 "Wicked Matz has become mad again!" they said amongst themselves.
 "I don't like that," was the lady's remark.
 For a moment, Alfred's respect for Kaela's mamma underwent a sudden shock, and lessened considerably; but, dazzled by the light which surrounded Kaela, he soon found it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color.
 They felt the want of a change of air, and consequently the young couple and their mother travelled to Italy.
 "There is no real pleasure in travelling," said mamma; "to tell the truth, it's very wearisome; I beg pardon for saying so.
 I was soon very tired of it, although I had my children with me; and, besides, it's very expensive work travelling, very expensive.
 And all those galleries one is expected to see, and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!
 It must be done, for very shame; you are sure to be asked when you come back if you have seen everything, and will most likely be told that you've omitted to see what was best worth seeing of all.
 I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas; I began to think I was turning into a Madonna myself."
 "And then the living, mamma," said Kaela.
 "Yes, indeed," she replied, "no such a thing as a respectable meat soup- their cookery is miserable stuff."
 "He's gone to the very extreme," said mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife.
 Men have no constancy.
 "That was not a loving speech," said Sophy, "nor spoken like a Christian.
 "I am accustomed to better things," said the beetle.
 Why, there is not even a dung-heap."
 I have come out of the Emperor's stable, and no one there, not even the Emperor's horse, who, in fact, wears my cast-off golden shoes, has any idea of flying, excepting myself.
 To have wings and fly! why, I can do that already;" and so saying, he spread his wings and flew away.
 "I don't want to be disgusted," he said to himself, "and yet I can't help it."
 Is there not even a dunghill here in this garden, where a person of rank, like myself, could take up his abode and feel at home?"
 "Oh," said the other beetles, "this fellow that we have received into our family is nothing but a complete vagabond.
 He has gone away and left his wife a burden upon our hands."
 "Fie on the villain that forsook her!"
 Our beetle considered this speech a great insult, so he flew suddenly out of the speaker's hand.
 "You speak without knowing the facts," replied the beetle; "don't you see that I am a prisoner?"
 "Well, now I know the world," said the beetle to himself; "it's an abominable world; I'm the only respectable person in it.
 First, they refuse me my golden shoes; then I have to lie on damp linen, and to stand in a draught; and to crown all, they fasten a wife upon me.
 The world does not deserve to be made acquainted with my adventures, for it ought to have given me golden shoes when the emperor's horse was shod, and I stretched out my feet to be shod, too.
 "What has a woman to do with rule?" said the bishop.
 "Cursed be she and all that belongs to her.
 Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.
 Let no man stretch forth a helping hand to her, and let friends and relations avoid her as a plague and a pestilence!"
 "That will avail him little," said the bishop.
 "Yes, you may sing very well, you have all your limbs uninjured; you should feel what it is like to lose your body, and only have a neck and a mouth left, with a cork stuck in it, as I have: you wouldn't sing then, I know.
 "I gave them wine, and they gave me muddy water," he had said to himself, "but I suppose it was all well meant."
 Then he would wait no longer, but flew away, to commence his wooing at once.
 He next flew to the anemones; these were rather sour to his taste.
 No; he did not like her.
 I am old, and you are old, but we may live for each other just the same; as to marrying- no; don't let us appear ridiculous at our age."
 "Ah," thought the butterfly, "one can't very well trust these plants in pots; they have too much to do with mankind."
 "They are like wet wood," he would say, looking round to see what sort of people were present, "this evening; nothing fires them."
 The latter has neither hens nor chicks, and only thinks of himself and perspires verdigris.
 "It was a little rough- it wanted elegance."
 "I am too fine for this world," said the darning-needle, as she lay in the gutter; "but I know who I am, and that is always some comfort."
 "I am not a fellow, I am a young lady," said the darning-needle; but no one heard her.
 "That is horrible!" said old Kribble-Krabble.
 "Don't talk nonsense," replied the old gentleman.
 "You shall have no horse from me.
 You don't know how to speak- you can't arrange your words.
 "Dullard!" they cried, "that is only an old wooden shoe, and the upper part is missing into the bargain; are you going to give that also to the Princess?"
 "Bah!" said the brothers; "that is nothing but clay out of the ditch."
 Then the Princess would say, "He is of no use!
 Away with him out of the hall!"
 "He is of no use!" said the Princess.
 "Away with him!"
 "Away with him!"
 "Stop!" cried the old goblin," is that the only house-keeping they can perform?
 Can they do anything more than dance and throw about their legs, and make a whirlwind?"
 But the old goblin said he should not like his wife to have such an accomplishment, and thought his boys would have the same objection.
 "That is a dangerous woman," said the old goblin; and the two sons walked out of the hill; they had had enough of it.
 And the bees told it to their queen, who commanded that the next morning they should go and kill the murderer.
 "I am not stupid," said the man.
 "But he has nothing on at all," said a little child at last.
 The next night a great many more mice made their appearance, and on Sunday two rats came with them; but they said, it was not a pretty story at all, and the little mice were very sorry, for it made them also think less of it.
 "Do you know only one story?" asked the rats.
 "We think it is a very miserable story," said the rats.
 "Look what is sticking to the ugly old fir-tree," said the child, treading on the branches till they crackled under his boots.
 "'No, I don't like to be always talking of what we are,' remarked the saucepan; 'let us think of some other amusement; I will begin.
 "'They were only common people after all,' thought the matches.
 "'I think it highly improper,' said the tea-kettle, who was kitchen singer, and half-brother to the tea-urn, 'that a rich foreign bird should be listened to here.
 "'Yes, if we had chosen,' they each thought, 'we might have spent a very pleasant evening.'
 And the stag answered, 'The Turk has come to our city; he has wild dogs for the chase, a goodly pack.' 'I will drive them away across the islands!' cried the young roebuck; 'I will drive them away across the islands into the deep sea.'
 "Without arms and legs!" cried the mother.
 The neighbors declared it was unbearable, and the Fire-drum was of the same opinion.
 No," replied Care; "you may depend upon it that whoever puts on those goloshes will be very unhappy, and bless the moment in which he can get rid of them."
 "What a scandalous condition this place is in," said he; never, certainly, had he found his own times so miserable as on this evening.
 The woman stared at him and shook her head.
 "They are strange people, these poets," thought the clerk.
 "You screamer!" said the lady, throwing a white handkerchief over the cage.
 You raise your naturally high notes so much, that you get covered over.
 They never serve me so.
 Wherever I go I feel a want which oppresses my heart, for something better presents itself at the moment; yes, something better, which shall be the best of all; but where is that to be found?
 "Look!" said Care; "what happiness have your goloshes brought to mankind?"
 "Not so," said Care, "he went away of himself, he was not summoned.
 "She's good for nothing.
 What a sad thing it is with these people.
 Tell your mother she ought to be ashamed of herself.
 Don't you become a drunkard, but I expect you will though.
 Poor child! there, go now."
 Well, perhaps he is right, but he should not have said it to my child.
 "Oh, it is the laundress," said he; "she has had a little drop too much.
 She is good for nothing.
 It is a sad thing for her pretty little son.
 I like the boy very well; but the mother is good for nothing."
 "She has drunk herself to death," said the cruel mayor.
 "There was something between my brother and her, I remember," said the mayor; "it is a good thing that she is out of the way, for now the boy will have the whole.
 The mayor sent for the boy to come to him, and promised to take care of him, but most cruelly added that it was a good thing that his mother was dead, for "she was good for nothing."
 He is like one of the family, faithful and grumpy; but the latter is my grandchildren's fault, for they have teased him; they play at wedding, and want to give him the part of the bridesmaid, and that's too much for him, poor old fellow."
 You need not be in a hurry; you are always so impatient, and the youngster is getting just the same.
 "There may be black snails, no doubt," said the old snail; "black snails without houses; but they are so vulgar and conceited too.
 "He has the whole burdock forest; she has only a bush."
 "It must be a kind of garden plant," said another; and so they sneered and despised the plant as a thing from a garden.
 "Not known in any system!" repeated the thistles and the nettles.
 "That plant is a foreigner, no doubt," said the thistles and the burdocks.
 "We can never conduct ourselves like that in this country."
 And the black forest snails actually spat at the flower.
 Let her have the goose-bone with its lump of wax and bit of stick.
 "Wanting!" cried the guardian angel; "nothing must be wanting here; and if it is so, let us fetch it; let us seek the powerful fairy; let us go to her."
 "You must not say that," said Big Claus; "for only one of them belongs to you."
 "Now I must beg you not to say that again," said Big Claus; "for if you do, I shall hit your horse on the head, so that he will drop dead on the spot, and there will be an end of him."
 I would not have it in the house another hour; there is no knowing if he may not be still there."
 "What can he want it for?" thought Great Claus; so he smeared the bottom of the measure with tar, that some of whatever was put into it might stick there and remain.
 "This all comes of my fiery temper.
 Don't say such things, or you will lose your head."
 And then he talked to him seriously about the wicked deed he had done, and told him that such a wicked man would surely be punished.
 "That is all very well, but such tales or stories are worth nothing!
 "Why do the flowers look so faded to-day?" she asked again, and pointed to her nosegay, which was quite withered.
 Then the old steward says, 'I smell flowers here,' but he cannot see them."
 "How can anyone put such notions into a child's head?" said a tiresome lawyer, who had come to pay a visit, and sat on the sofa.
 He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
 But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
 All at once the wax doll which rode on the carnival rod seemed to grow larger and taller, and it turned round and said to the paper flowers, "How can you put such things in a child's head? they are all foolish fancies;" and then the doll was exactly like the lawyer with the broad brimmed hat, and looked as yellow and as cross as he did; but the paper dolls struck him on his thin legs, and he shrunk up again and became quite a little wax doll.
 "You are the right sort to dance with, certainly," said she, turning her back upon him.
 "You are not kind at all," said Ida; "and yet they all danced with you."
 "She has no feelers," said another.
 "Her waist is quite slim.
 Pooh! she is like a human being."
 "Oh! she is ugly," said all the lady cockchafers, although Tiny was very pretty.
 Then the cockchafer who had run away with her, believed all the others when they said she was ugly, and would have nothing more to say to her, and told her she might go where she liked.
 But Tiny did not feel at all interested about this neighbor, for he was a mole.
 "Nonsense," replied the field-mouse.
 You ought to be very thankful for such good fortune."
 "Felicita," she said, "what are you doing to the child?"
 "If you must ask questions, ask sensible ones," said their mother.
 "Don't you see that they are feathers, such as I wear and you will wear too?
 The thick-headed roses ought to know why, but they know nothing at all; they only look at themselves and smell.
 I am heartily tired of such neighbours."
 But such neighbours as ours!
 The roses are good for nothing but to be looked at and to be smelt, or at most to be stuck in a hat.
 You see, that's their life; they exist only for the eye and the nose.
 "Nothing at all," answered their mother; "that's only something external.
 If they were only plucked a little they would look no better than the rest of us.
 I would have plucked them already if they had not been so big."
 "This sight is really too tedious," said the sparrow-mother, who could see into the room from her nest; and she flew away.
 I don't want to talk to them, and it looks miserable here- that's my opinion."
 "Do you see that pouter pigeon?" said one to the other.
 She eats too many, and the best ones too.
 How she lifts her crest, the ugly, spiteful creature!
 And the eyes of all sparkled with malice.
 It only looks like something.
 Then he called one of his lords-in-waiting, who was so high-bred, that when any in an inferior rank to himself spoke to him, or asked him a question, he would answer, "Pooh," which means nothing.
 Already a new emperor had been chosen and the people who stood in the street asked the lord-in-waiting how the old emperor was; but he only said, "Pooh!" and shook his head.
 THAT was a terrible affair!" said a hen, and in a quarter of the town, too, where it had not taken place.
 "That was a terrible affair in a hen-roost.
 I mention no names, but there is a hen here who intends to pluck herself in order to look well.
 If I were a cock, I should despise her."
 They rolled their eyes, and mother owl, beating her wings, said: "Don't listen to her!
 There is one among the fowls who has so far forgotten what is becoming to a hen that she plucks out all her feathers and lets the cock see it."
 It is almost unbecoming to tell the story, but there is no doubt about it."
 It is a dangerous game, for one can easily catch cold and die from fever, and both of these are dead already."
 It is a horrible story: I will not keep it to myself, but let it go farther."
 The hen who had lost the loose little feather naturally did not recognise her own story, and being a respectable hen, said: "I despise those fowls; but there are more of that kind.
 She could not help it, and yet I have been so bitter, and in such enmity against her."
 "The blossoms are often plucked," said Anthony; "the fruit is stolen and the branches broken without a thankful thought of their profusion and beauty.
 Forsaken and forgotten, in a garden by a hedge in a field, and close to a public road.
 There it stands, unsheltered, plundered, and broken.
 Oh dear, how I am creaking.
 Gout in my back, ugh."
 "That's just like the cat, she's a villain," said the Portuguese duck.
 How can such a creature be allowed to live, and wander about upon the roofs.
 "Don't plague him so, interposed the Portuguese duck; "he requires rest and nursing.
 It cannot even be said of the ducks, and we warn you, little bird, not to trust that one yonder, with the short tail feathers, for she is cunning; that curiously marked one, with the crooked stripes on her wings, is a mischief-maker, and never lets any one have the last word, though she is always in the wrong.
 That fat duck yonder speaks evil of every one, and that is against our principles.
 The witty little duck said of the Portuguese, that the old lady was getting quite a "doting ducky," All the other ducks laughed at this.
 I have nerves of my own, but I do not cry 'tweet.'"
 Don't stand there, looking so stupid."
 There's not a drop of malicious blood in me.
 "she said; "could he not bear even such a little peck as I gave him?
 Then certainly he was not made for this world.
 "Justice must still be carried out, even when one has relations and good friends among the prize committee; but that the snail should have received the second prize, I consider almost an insult to myself" "No," said the fence-rail, who had been a witness at the distribution of prizes; "there should be some consideration for industry and perseverance.
 You have no love of fatherland in you.
 "I know so much, at least, that the hare only ran from cowardice, and because he thought there was danger in delay.
 But I do not understand chattering and boasting; on the contrary, I despise it."
 And the snail spat at them with contempt.
 Our worshipful judges don't appear to have noticed this at all.
 Were I the sunbeam, I would give each one of them a sun stroke; but that would only make them mad, and they are mad enough already.
 Karen believed that this was all on account of the red shoes, but the old lady thought them hideous, and so they were burnt.
 "Dance you shall," said he, "dance in your red shoes till you are pale and cold, till your skin shrivels up and you are a skeleton!
 Dance you shall, from door to door, and where proud and wicked children live you shall knock, so that they may hear you and fear you!
 Dance you shall, dance- !"
 "You must not speak to me," said the garter; "I do not think I have given you any encouragement to do so."
 "Don't come so near me," said the garter; "I am not accustomed to it."
 You are burning a hole in me.
 Ugh!
 "You old rag," said the flat-iron, driving proudly over the collar, for she fancied herself a steam-engine, which rolls over the railway and draws carriages.
 "You old rag!" said she.
 "You know nothing at all," replied the yard-dog; "but then, you've only lately been patched up.
 "Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard-dog.
 "Certainly people who were only born yesterday know very little.
 I can see that in you.
 "Your 'something' is not enough for me," said the second brother; "what you talk of doing is nothing at all, it is journeyman's work, or might even be done by a machine.
 No!
 "I call it all nothing," said the third; "not in reality any position.
 "Not in my opinion," said the fourth; "I will never follow the lead of others, and only imitate what they have done.
 "It is evidently for the sake of contrast that I and this wretched soul should arrive here exactly at the same time," said the critic.
 I know thou hast accomplished nothing, not even made a single brick.
 But thou canst not return to earth, and I can do nothing for thee."
 "Never mind what they say; you need not listen," said the mother.
 But the boys went on singing and pointing at the storks, and mocking at them, excepting one of the boys whose name was Peter; he said it was a shame to make fun of animals, and would not join with them at all.
 "No, certainly not," said the mother.
 "Listen to me, and not to them," said the mother stork.
 "Would you like to stay here and freeze when the winter comes?" said the mother, "or till the boys comes to hang you, or to roast you?- Well then, I'll call them."
 "For shame, it is natural" repeated all her ladies.
 "God forbid," said the lady.
 "It is very naughty," said the princess, and walked off.
 "That is tiresome," said the princess.
 "I believe he is mad," said the princess, and walked off, but soon she stopped.
 "But we do not like to kiss him" said the ladies.
 "The ladies of the court are up to some mischief, I think.
 "You refused an honest prince; you did not appreciate the rose and the nightingale; but you did not mind kissing a swineherd for his toys; you have no one but yourself to blame!"
 "She's thick, and fat and ugly," said the young green Frogs; "and her children will be just as ugly as she is."
 The young frogs listened and stared; and as these words did not please them, they made grimaces and dived down under the water.
 "Quack!" said the little Toad; and that's just as if one of us were to say, "Aha!"
 "Ugh, you beast!" said the farm laborer who emptied the bucket, when he saw the toad.
 "You're the ugliest thing I've seen for one while."
 It hides half the world from me, but I don't care for the world."
 "It doesn't do that with a good will," thought the Fowl, and lifted up her head to peck at the Caterpillar.
 "Just look at the crawling thing!"
 "I don't care for the little green morsel; it would only tickle my throat."
 "Man is the most conceited creature!" said the Stork.
 "Listen how their jaws are wagging; and for all that they can't clap properly.
 They boast of their gifts of eloquence and their language!
 It makes my beak turn cold when I think of it.
 The world could get on without men.
 "'Leave it alone,' I sang down the chimney; 'leave it alone, it will all end in smoke, air, coals, and ashes, and you will burn your fingers.'
 But Waldemar Daa did not leave it alone, and all he possessed vanished like smoke blown by me.
 'Where the chimney smokes, the meal is being cooked,' says the proverb; but here a chimney smoked that devoured all the meals for the sake of gold.
 'Give it up, give it up!'
 But my Lord Daa would not do that.
 Daa and his daughters could not help hearing it, so I blew about their ears to drown the noise; what use was it that they should listen?
 "I will not be touched," said the king.
 "Very well; wait till to-morrow, then," said the goblin.
 But the ball, which wore a dress of morocco leather, and thought as much of herself as any other young lady, would not even condescend to reply.
 "Yes, but he is so big and ugly," said the spiteful duck "and therefore he must be turned out."
 "The others are very pretty children," said the old duck, with the rag on her leg, "all but that one; I wish his mother could improve him a little."
 "That is impossible, your grace," replied the mother; "he is not pretty; but he has a very good disposition, and swims as well or even better than the others.
 The poor duckling was driven about by every one; even his brothers and sisters were unkind to him, and would say, "Ah, you ugly creature, I wish the cat would get you," and his mother said she wished he had never been born.
 "Then you have no right to express an opinion when sensible people are speaking."
 "What an absurd idea," said the hen.
 "You have nothing else to do, therefore you have foolish fancies.
 "Delightful, indeed!" said the hen, "why you must be crazy!
 Don't imagine such nonsense, child, and thank your good fortune that you have been received here.
 But you are a chatterer, and your company is not very agreeable.
 At last the prince had his own statue erected on the public places and fixed on the royal palaces; nay, he even wished it to be placed in the churches, on the altars, but in this the priests opposed him, saying: "Prince, you are mighty indeed, but God's power is much greater than yours; we dare not obey your orders."
 "Then I will conquer God too."
