 They dance on the green rampart, just on the place where, according to the old story, the ground always sank in, and where a sportive, frolicsome child had been lured by means of flowers, toys and sweetmeats into an open grave ready dug for it, and which was afterwards closed over the child; and from that moment, the old story says, the ground gave way no longer, the mound remained firm and fast, and was quickly covered with the green turf.
 Soon the years will come- yes, those glorious years.
 It was night, and quite still in the great town.
 "Heaven help us!" cried the boy at the helm, as the boat heeled over and lay on its beam ends.
 "The black wretch!" said Anne Lisbeth, "he will end by frightening me today."
 And then they all hung on her, but there were too many; and as they clung the sleeve was torn, and Anne Lisbeth fell down in horror, and awoke.
 Indeed she was on the point of falling over in reality with the chair on which she sat; but she was so startled and alarmed that she could not remember what she had dreamed, only that it was something very dreadful.
 She shuddered; yet it was nothing save a heap of grass and tangled seaweed flung across a long stone, but it looked like a corpse.
 Only tangled grass, and yet she was frightened at it.
 As she turned to walk away, much came into her mind that she had heard in her childhood: old superstitions of spectres by the sea-shore; of the ghosts of drowned but unburied people, whose corpses had been washed up on the desolate beach.
 "Hold fast! hold fast!" the spectre would cry; and as Anne Lisbeth murmured these words to herself, the whole of her dream was suddenly recalled to her memory, when the mother had clung to her, and uttered these words, when, amid the crashing of worlds, her sleeve had been torn, and she had slipped from the grasp of her child, who wanted to hold her up in that terrible hour.
 As these thoughts passed through her mind, fear gave speed to her feet, so that she walked faster and faster.
 Fear came upon her as if a cold, clammy hand had been laid upon her heart, so that she almost fainted.
 It looked like a pale, rayless surface, and a deadly weight seemed to hang upon her limbs.
 She turned in the direction of the church, and the weight on her heart seemed to grow lighter, and even to vanish altogether; but when she turned to go home by the shortest way, it returned.
 The mist was cold and damp, her hands and face were moist and clammy with horror, a heavy weight again seized her and clung to her, her mind became clear for thoughts that had never before been there.
 "A grave! dig me a grave!" sounded again in her ears, and she would have gladly buried herself, if in the grave she could have found forgetfulness of her actions.
 It was the first hour of her awakening, full of anguish and horror.
 Superstition made her alternately shudder with cold or burn with the heat of fever.
 Many things, of which she had feared even to speak, came into her mind.
 "I am the raven-mother; I am the raven-mother," each raven croaked, and Anne Lisbeth felt that the name also applied to her; and she fancied she should be transformed into a black bird, and have to cry as they cried, if she did not dig the grave.
 And she threw herself upon the earth, and with her hands dug a grave in the hard ground, so that the blood ran from her fingers.
 "A grave! dig me a grave!" still sounded in her ears; she was fearful that the cock might crow, and the first red streak appear in the east, before she had finished her work; and then she would be lost.
 It was dreadful to hear all that, for the preacher spoke from his heart, and all the people in the church were terrified.
 Alas! eternally- how long!
 The pastor's hand trembled; he dared not stretch it out, he did not venture to pull a hair out of the sinner's head.
 "Father of all mercy, grant Thou to her the peace that I was unable to procure for her!"
 "Charming!
 Kaela stood silent, but nodded in approbation of what he said, while mamma-in-law made the following confession:- "It is difficult to follow you; but I go hobbling along after you with my thoughts, though what you say makes my head whirl round and round.
 He began to doubt whether he should escape with his life, so he remained, quietly lying where he was.
 "That is quite out in the great world, on the other side of the ditch," answered an earwig, "I hope none of my children will ever go so far, it would be the death of me."
 He twisted and turned about with all his might, but he got a good squeeze from the boy's hand, as a hint for him to keep quiet.
 "Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop; and when I, the Bell, who am made of metal, rang hard and loud, and swung to and fro, I might have beaten out his brains.
 The rats are eating her up alive!
 He sought shelter in the church, and shut gate and door behind him.
 "Be cautious, cautious, and take good heed to thyself," they both say.
 They fear an attack from the armed followers of the robber-knights.
 The country people say that this appearance is caused by lightning; but I will tell you what the sparrow says, and the sparrow heard it from an old willow-tree which grew near a field of buckwheat, and is there still.
 There arose a very terrible storm.
 All the field-flowers folded their leaves together, or bowed their little heads, while the storm passed over them, but the buckwheat stood erect in its pride.
 "Bend your head as we do," said the flowers.
 "Bend your head as we do," cried the ears of corn; "the angel of the storm is coming; his wings spread from the sky above to the earth beneath.
 He will strike you down before you can cry for mercy."
 "Close your flowers and bend your leaves," said the old willow-tree.
 "Do not look at the lightning when the cloud bursts; even men cannot do that.
 In a flash of lightning heaven opens, and we can look in; but the sight will strike even human beings blind.
 What then must happen to us, who only grow out of the earth, and are so inferior to them, if we venture to do so?"
 And then she remembered those she left behind, and a great terror came over her.
 In the night there was a terrible storm.
 The hens, chicks, and even the cock sought shelter; the wind tore down the planks between the two yards with a crash; the tiles came tumbling down, but the weather-cock sat firm.
 With that the weather-cock broke off; but he did not kill the yard cock, although the hens said that had been his intention.
 "Pluck the flower off" said the other boy, and the daisy trembled for fear, for to be pulled off meant death to it; and it wished so much to live, as it was to go with the square of turf into the poor captive lark's cage.
 "Now I am going on a journey," said the needle, as she floated away with the dirty water, "I do hope I shall not be lost."
 "White walls, and I am black myself," said the darning-needle, "that looks well; now I can be seen, but I hope I shall not be sea-sick, or I shall break again."
 I am breaking!" but she did not break, though the waggon went over her as she lay at full length; and there let her lie.
 Towards the evening robbers came; they killed three of her people and also the yard-dog, and attached Mrs. Meta to the kennel by the chain, while they themselves made good cheer in the hall and drank the wine and the good ale out of her cellar.
 Mrs. Meta was now on the chain, she could not even bark.
 And how fierce they are!
 But what a kribbling and krabbling was there!
 But it is not so easy to find out if one does not know.
 Those at the top were being pulled down, and those at the bottom were struggling upwards.
 All the inhabitants of the country round about stood in great crowds around the castle, almost under the very windows, to see the Princess receive the suitors; and as each stepped into the hall, his power of speech seemed to desert him, like the light of a candle that is blown out.
 "What- what were you- were you pleased to ob-" stammered he- and all the clerks wrote down, "pleased to ob-" "He is of no use!" said the Princess.
 The poor little elf was very much frightened.
 The hat was on the head now, which made it very dark, and the little elf shuddered with fright and indignation at the wicked deed.
 But he felt rather uneasy when he remembered that he who was not fit for his office could not see it.
 Personally, he was of opinion that he had nothing to fear, yet he thought it advisable to send somebody else first to see how matters stood.
 Everybody in the town knew what a remarkable quality the stuff possessed, and all were anxious to see how bad or stupid their neighbours were.
 "Oh dear," he thought, "can I be so stupid?
 I should never have thought so, and nobody must know it!
 Is it possible that I am not fit for my office?
 No, no, I cannot say that I was unable to see the cloth."
 The chamberlains, who were to carry the train, stretched their hands to the ground as if they lifted up a train, and pretended to hold something in their hands; they did not like people to know that they could not see anything.
 In the autumn, as usual, the wood-cutters came and cut down several of the tallest trees, and the young fir-tree, which was now grown to its full height, shuddered as the noble trees fell to the earth with a crash.
 "And then," asked the fir-tree, trembling through all its branches, "and then what happens?"
 How the fir-tree trembled!
 "What was going to happen to him now?"
 After this, the tree tried not to tremble at all, though the fire frightened him; he was so anxious not to hurt any of the beautiful ornaments, even while their brilliancy dazzled him.
 Whenever the bottom of the trunk cracked, he was in a great fright, for if the trunk fell to pieces he would have made a tremendous somerset over the trees.
 We dried her clothes as well as we were able, and remained on the water till they were dry; for we did not wish it to be known what a fright we had had, nor the danger which our little adopted sister had incurred, in whose life Aphtanides had now a part.
 My mother lighted a fire, and roasted some roots she had brought with her, and I and my little sister slept among the bushes, without fear of the ugly smidraki, from whose throat issues fire, or of the wolf and the jackal; for my mother sat by us, and I considered her presence sufficient protection.
 I saw it, I understood the cause, and I believe my hand trembled too.
 No one could tell, for terror had seized upon all.
 "Pray tell me where the bridge is!" said he.
 "This is really frightful; I cannot even recognize East Street.
 Oh, I really must be ill!
 The counsellor felt a cold shiver run all over him.
 All his comrades were very much frightened, for he seemed quite dead; still they allowed him to remain after they had given notice of what had happened; and at dawn the body was carried to the hospital.
 He declared, when he quite recovered himself, that this had been the most dreadful night he had ever passed; not for a hundred pounds would he go through such feelings again.
 A sailor boy had flung his large cap over the bird, and a hand came underneath and caught the clerk by the back and wings so roughly, that he squeaked, and then cried out in his alarm, "You impudent rascal, I am a clerk in the police-office!" but it only sounded to the boy like "tweet, tweet;" so he tapped the bird on the beak, and walked away with him.
 The canary-bird fluttered in his cage, and the parrot flapped his wings and cried, "Let us be men;" the poor clerk, in the most deadly terror, flew through the window, over the houses, and through the streets, till at length he was obliged to seek a resting-place.
 "Only half a quartern," stammered the boy in a frightened voice.
 Then said the swineherd, "I am afraid I carried this plant away from the forest in my bundle, and it has been burnt to ashes long ago.
 But I did not know any better."
 "Oh, take me with you," cried Christina; and she sprang after him.
 But the house was not yonder; and they wandered still farther, over the dry rustling leaves of the last year, and treading on fallen branches that crackled under their little feet; then they heard a loud, piercing cry, and they stood still to listen.
 Presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood; it was an ugly cry, and it frightened the children; but before them, in the thickest part of the forest, grew the most beautiful blackberries, in wonderful quantities.
 Presently they heard the frightful scream again, and Christina said, "We shall get into trouble about that pig."
 So they went on, but the road led them out of the way; no house could be seen, it grew dark, and the children were afraid.
 He had something else to say, which made him hesitate in a strange manner.
 "I only hope he's not become unwell," said the Yard Dog, and then he smelt at him again.
 "Whither art thou leading me?" asked the guardian angel.
 When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, and begged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood in the room.
 He did so, for he knew her husband could not endure the sight of a sexton.
 The woman then quickly put away the wine, and hid all the rest of the nice things in the oven; for if her husband had seen them he would have asked what they were brought out for.
 The woman dared not say anything; so she placed the things before them, and they both ate of the fish, the meat, and the pastry.
 "Do you hear? he answers 'Yes,' but he fears that we shall not like to look at him."
 "Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, going towards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now lay inside, very much frightened.
 "No, leave it alone," cried the sexton from within the chest; "let me out first."
 "Oh," exclaimed Little Claus, pretending to be frightened, "he is in there still, is he?
 "Oh, no; oh, no," cried the sexton; "I will give you a whole bushel full of money if you will let me go.
 And Great Claus was obliged to run as fast as he could, he had never before been so thoroughly beaten.
 Dear Little Claus, I will give you a bushel of money; I will bury your grandmother as if she were my own; only keep silent, or else they will cut off my head, and that would be disagreeable."
 Great Claus got so frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart, whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly.
 The apothecary and all the people thought him mad, and let him drive where he liked.
 "Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Little Claus in the sack, as he turned and twisted about; but he found he could not loosen the string with which it was tied.
 I was frightened, to be sure, while I lay tied up in the sack, and the wind whistled in my ears when you threw me into the river from the bridge, and I sank to the bottom immediately; but I did not hurt myself, for I fell upon beautifully soft grass which grows down there; and in a moment, the sack opened, and the sweetest little maiden came towards me.
 She had drawn her little feet under her, but she could not keep off the cold; and she dared not go home, for she had sold no matches, and could not take home even a penny of money.
 Her father would certainly beat her; besides, it was almost as cold at home as here, for they had only the roof to cover them, through which the wind howled, although the largest holes had been stopped up with straw and rags.
 "Don't speak so loud, or she will wake," said the toad, "and then she might run away, for she is as light as swan's down.
 Oh, how frightened little Tiny felt when the cockchafer flew with her to the tree!
 Tiny trembled very much; she was quite frightened, for the bird was large, a great deal larger than herself,- she was only an inch high.
 And again little Tuk lay in his bed, scarcely knowing whether he was dreaming or not, for some one stood by him.
 The metallic groups of figures, among which were Perseus and the Rape of the Sabines, looked like living persons, and cries of terror sounded from them all across the noble square.
 Do not get down yet, for if you do, then I shall be lifeless, as you have seen me in the Porta Rosa."
 Fear and trembling came upon him as he thought of his mother; she had sent him out the day before to get some money, he had not done so, and now he was hungry and thirsty.
 "Don't be angry," he pleaded; "I received nothing, I have nothing at all;" and he seized his mother's dress and would have kissed it.
 "Will you be quiet? or I'll break your screaming head;" and she swung about the fire-pot which she held in her hand, while the boy crouched to the earth and screamed.
 The boy rushed out at the sight, sped across the courtyard, and fled from the house.
 A fiery dragon could not have frightened the little boy so much as did the little dog in this place.
 The boy did not know whether he had better jump into the Arno, or go home and confess everything.
 They would certainly kill him, he thought.
 "Bellissima in the watch-house!" she cried.
 Poor little delicate thing, with those rough policemen! and she'll be frozen with cold."
 He stood so high that they were afraid he would not accept a verbal message.
 The horse-hair was drawn tightly round her leg- as tightly as if the latter were to be cut off; she was in great pain and terror.
 At these words an icy shudder ran through the sparrow-mother.
 But she, trembling in every limb, did not think of the adornment.
 "Now you will see the gold-jacket fly," said the old man, letting the sparrow go, which flew away in deadly fear, with the sun shining upon her.
 Driven by fear and horror, she flew homeward; she was almost sinking fainting to the earth, while the flock of pursuing birds increased, some even attempting to peck at her.
 The music-master wrote a work, in twenty-five volumes, about the artificial bird, which was very learned and very long, and full of the most difficult Chinese words; yet all the people said they had read it, and understood it, for fear of being thought stupid and having their bodies trampled upon.
 "Do you recollect that?" they asked one after another, thus bringing to his remembrance circumstances that made the perspiration stand on his brow.
 "Music! music!" shouted the emperor.
 "You little precious golden bird, sing, pray sing!
 I cannot sleep alone to-night.
 "Wake up! wake up!" crowed the cock, and flew upon his board.
 Sleep was still in his eyes, but yet he crowed out: "Three hens have died of their unfortunate love for a cock.
 If even a tiny spark had remained it might set fire to something, and cause great damage.
 But often, when he had got half way back, he would fancy the iron shutters of the door were not properly fastened, and his thin legs would carry him down again.
 He remembered a story told of her, that on one occasion, when she was carrying a basket full of wine and provisions, her husband, who had watched her footsteps, stepped forward and asked her angrily what she carried in her basket, whereupon, with fear and trembling, she answered, "Roses, which I have plucked from the garden."
 "But you are looking at me just as the wicked eyes looked when I fell into the yard yesterday."
 She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away; but they stuck fast.
 "Mercy!" cried Karen.
 "Don't cut off my head!" said Karen, "for then I could not repent of my sin.
 And she went quickly up to the church-door; but when she came there, the red shoes were dancing before her, and she was frightened, and turned back.
 Then she became terrified, and turned back and repented right heartily of her sin.
 But the garter was naturally shy, and did not know how to answer such a question.
 "I don't understand him," said the Snow Man to himself; "but I have a feeling that he is talking of something very disagreeable.
 The one who stared so just now, and whom he calls the sun, is not my friend; I can feel that too."
 "The cold is delightful," said the Snow Man; "but do tell me tell me; only you must not clank your chain so; for it jars all through me when you do that."
 I lay looking at the cloud till I observed a little black spot in the middle of it, which gradually grew larger and larger, and then I knew what it meant- I am old and experienced; and although this token is not often seen, I knew it, and a shuddering seized me.
 I was so alarmed, that I felt more strength and life than I had done for some time.
 I cried out as loudly as I could, but no one heard me; I was too far off from the people.
 Soon would the storm burst, the ice break, and all who were on it be irretrievably lost.
 The people on the ice became aware of the fire, and ran as fast as possible to help a poor sick woman, who, as they thought, was being burnt to death.
 She said, "His brother made all the stone and bricks, and sent them to me to build my poor little dwelling, which was a great deal to do for a poor woman like me.
 Could not all these bricks and pieces be as a wall of stone to prevail for him?
 "But we are very much frightened," said the young storks, and they drew back their heads into the nests.
 "Shall we be hanged and roasted?" asked the young storks.
 "Oh no, no," said the young stork, jumping out on the roof with the others; and now they were all attentive, and by the third day could fly a little.
 I feel so confident, and yet I am afraid.
 It's a difficult step to take, and yet it must be taken.
 The Toad was so horrified at this, that she came crawling straight up towards the Fowl.
 In the morning he could see through the iron grating of the little window how the people were hastening out of the town to see him hanged; he heard the drums beating, and saw the soldiers marching.
 "Help me now, that I may not be hanged," cried the soldier.
 The paper boat rocked up and down, and turned itself round sometimes so quickly that the tin soldier trembled; yet he remained firm; his countenance did not change; he looked straight before him, and shouldered his musket.
 "Where am I going now?" thought he.
 How they terrified the poor duckling!
 It was late in the day before all became quiet, but even then the poor young thing did not dare to move.
 He whirled himself in the water like a wheel, stretched out his neck towards them, and uttered a cry so strange that it frightened himself.
 The warmth revived the poor little creature; but when the children wanted to play with him, the duckling thought they would do him some harm; so he started up in terror, fluttered into the milk-pan, and splashed the milk about the room.
 Then the woman clapped her hands, which frightened him still more.
 The woman screamed, and struck at him with the tongs; the children laughed and screamed, and tumbled over each other, in their efforts to catch him; but luckily he escaped.
 His power increased day by day, his name was feared by all, and fortune favoured his deeds.
