 "The poor little children, how happy they are- how merrily they play and romp together!
 The little people who now play on that spot know nothing of the old tale, else would they fancy they heard a child crying deep below the earth, and the dewdrops on each blade of grass would be to them tears of woe.
 You are thinking of your dress, and of the Giver of all good- so glorious is it to wander on the green rampart!
 "And the years roll by; they have no lack of dark days, but you have your cheerful young spirit, and you have gained a friend- you know not how.
 You walk together on the rampart in the fresh spring, on the high days and holidays, when all the world come out to walk upon the ramparts, and all the bells of the church steeples seem to be singing a song of praise for the coming spring.
 Then he gathers a large handful of flowers, which he carries up to the Almighty, that they may bloom more brightly in heaven than they do on earth.
 And the Almighty presses the flowers to His heart, but He kisses the flower that pleases Him best, and it receives a voice, and is able to join the song of the chorus of bliss."
 Then they passed over well-known spots, where the little one had often played, and through beautiful gardens full of lovely flowers.
 "Which of these shall we take with us to heaven to be transplanted there?" asked the angel.
 The angel took up the rose-bush; then he kissed the child, and the little one half opened his eyes.
 The angel gathered also some beautiful flowers, as well as a few humble buttercups and heart's-ease.
 "Now we have flowers enough," said the child; but the angel only nodded, he did not fly upward to heaven.
 "We will take this with us," said the angel, "I will tell you why as we fly along."
 This he would place over his head, and fancy that he was in the beech-wood while the sun shone, and the birds carolled gayly.
 This he carefully planted in a flower-pot, and placed in a window-seat near his bed.
 And the flower had been planted by a fortunate hand, for it grew, put forth fresh shoots, and blossomed every year.
 It became a splendid flower-garden to the sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.
 He watered it, and cherished it, and took care it should have the benefit of every sunbeam that found its way into the cellar, from the earliest morning ray to the evening sunset.
 The flower entwined itself even in his dreams- for him it bloomed, for him spread its perfume.
 And it gladdened his eyes, and to the flower he turned, even in death, when the Lord called him.
 And this poor flower, withered and faded as it is, we have added to our nosegay, because it gave more real joy than the most beautiful flower in the garden of a queen."
 "I know it," said the angel, "because I myself was the poor sick boy who walked upon crutches, and I know my own flower well."
 Then the child opened his eyes and looked into the glorious happy face of the angel, and at the same moment they found themselves in that heavenly home where all is happiness and joy.
 And God pressed the dead child to His heart, and wings were given him so that he could fly with the angel, hand in hand.
 Then the Almighty pressed all the flowers to His heart; but He kissed the withered field-flower, and it received a voice.
 Then it joined in the song of the angels, who surrounded the throne, some near, and others in a distant circle, but all equally happy.
 They all joined in the chorus of praise, both great and small,- the good, happy child, and the poor field-flower, that once lay withered and cast away on a heap of rubbish in a narrow, dark street.
 Her beautiful, noble child had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.
 Certainly he must long to see me, too, the young count; no doubt he thinks of me and loves me, as in those days when he would fling his angel-arms round my neck, and lisp 'Anne Liz.'
 It was music to my ears.
 It was as great and magnificent as it had always been, and the garden looked the same as ever; all the servants were strangers to her, not one of them knew Anne Lisbeth, nor of what consequence she had once been there; but she felt sure the countess would soon let them know it, and her darling boy, too: how she longed to see him!
 In the face of Anne Lisbeth, lighted up by the evening sun, could be seen peace and rest.
 She said she was happy now, for she had conquered.
 "Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house we are happy."
 When the sun set, Anne Lisbeth's soul had risen to that region where there is no more pain; and Anne Lisbeth's troubles were at an end.
 The branch well knew how beautiful it was; this knowledge exists as much in the leaf as in the blood; I was therefore not surprised when a nobleman's carriage, in which sat the young countess, stopped in the road just by.
 She said that an apple-branch was a most lovely object, and an emblem of spring in its most charming aspect.
 O, I am really very thankful that I was not made like one of these flowers."
 There came presently across the fields a whole group of children, the youngest of whom was so small that it had to be carried by the others; and when he was seated on the grass, among the yellow flowers, he laughed aloud with joy, kicked out his little legs, rolled about, plucked the yellow flowers, and kissed them in childlike innocence.
 "Do you see," said the sunbeam, "do you see the beauty of these flowers? do you see their powers of giving pleasure?"
 "See," she exclaimed, "how wonderfully God has made this little flower.
 I will paint it with the apple-branch together.
 Meanwhile, the birds sang merrily outside, and the sun was shining so beautifully warm, it seemed as though every little flower said: "God, Thy kindness towards us all is without limits."
 "I have it now!" said the dead woman.
 He talked and told anecdotes, and every one listened to him with pleasure, not unmingled with awe; but none felt so much respect for him as did the elderly widow of a naval officer.
 "I should like to see Rome," she said; "it must be a lovely city, or so many foreigners would not be constantly arriving there.
 Several of the guests could scarcely forbear laughing, and the sculptor would have had some difficulty in keeping his countenance, but the smile on his lips faded away; for he caught sight of a pair of dark-blue eyes close by the side of the inquisitive lady.
 She was a study for the sculptor to contemplate, but not to converse with; for she did not speak, or, at least, very seldom.
 Mr. Alfred again spoke of Italy, and of the glorious colors in Italian scenery; the purple hills, the deep blue of the Mediterranean, the azure of southern skies, whose brightness and glory could only be surpassed in the north by the deep-blue eyes of a maiden; and he said this with a peculiar intonation; but she who should have understood his meaning looked quite unconscious of it, which also was charming.
 "Beautiful Italy!" sighed some of the guests.
 "Oh, to travel there!" exclaimed others.
 Charming!" echoed from every voice.
 "I may perhaps win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery," said the naval officer's widow; "and if I do, we will travel- I and my daughter; and you, Mr. Alfred, must be our guide.
 We can all three travel together, with one or two more of our good friends."
 And she nodded in such a friendly way at the company, that each imagined himself to be the favored person who was to accompany them to Italy.
 Those deep-blue eyes, which had been lit up this evening in honor of him, must conceal treasures, treasures of heart and mind, richer than all the glories of Rome; and so when he left the party that night, he had lost it completely to the young lady.
 The young man felt the truth of the proverb, "Still waters run deep:" and his heart had sunk into their depths.
 It was a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything.
 The betrothed pair were very happy, and the mother was happy too.
 "You are a true successor of Thorwalsden," she said to Alfred; and it seemed to him as if, in this instance, mamma had said a clever thing.
 Kaela was silent; but her eyes shone, her lips smiled, every movement was graceful,- in fact, she was beautiful; that cannot be repeated too often.
 "Ah, yes, you are always so polite," said mamma, with a smile; and Kaela silently pressed his hand, all soiled as it was with the clay.
 Kaela's beauty had a firm hold on Alfred; it filled his soul, and held a mastery over him.
 Songs were sung, and cheers given; for it was a gay wedding, and they were a handsome pair.
 "Thank heaven we are at home again within our own four walls," said mamma-in-law and daughter both, on their return after a year's absence.
 Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy was not only a clever housewife, but well-informed and accomplished, though that could hardly be expected in a person of her limited means.
 "'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and elevate us, I have not found and won till now.
 The lady-birds, with red and black shells on their backs, and delicate wings, were flying about, and one of them said, "Is it not sweet and lovely here?
 Oh, how beautiful everything is."
 "How beautiful this world is!" said the caterpillar.
 "The sun is so warm, I quite enjoy it.
 And soon I shall go to sleep, and die as they call it, but I shall wake up with beautiful wings to fly with, like a butterfly."
 Two frogs were sitting on the linen, and their bright eyes actually glistened with pleasure.
 "Wonderful weather this," cried one of them, "and so refreshing.
 This linen holds the water together so beautifully, that my hind legs quiver as if I were going to swim."
 What delicious moisture!
 It is as pleasant as lying in a wet ditch.
 "Our dear son has engaged himself," said one mother, "dear innocent boy; his greatest ambition is that he may one day creep into a clergyman's ear.
 That is a very artless and loveable wish; and being engaged will keep him steady.
 What happiness for a mother!"
 How charming this is for a mother, is it not Mr. Beetle?" for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
 "Now you shall also see my little earwigs," said a third and a fourth mother, "they are lovely little things, and highly amusing.
 "They are always busy about something, the little rogues," said the mother, beaming with maternal pride; but the beetle felt it a bore, and he therefore inquired the way to the nearest dung-heap.
 When he arrived at the ditch, he met several friends, all them beetles; "We live here," they said, "and we are very comfortable.
 "Certainly," said the beetle, "I shall be most happy; I have been exposed to the rain, and have had to lie upon linen, and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me; I have also pains in one of my wings from standing in the draught under a piece of broken crockery.
 It is really quite refreshing to be with one's own kindred again."
 The mother gave them her blessing, and all the other beetles cried "hurrah."
 All this was very delightful, and when the beetle woke up he crept forth and looked around him.
 What a splendid place the hothouse was!
 "What a wonderful quantity of plants," cried the beetle; "how good they will taste when they are decayed!
 "What beautiful weather," said the fly; "I shall rest here and sun myself.
 "There," she said, "creep away, or fly, if thou canst.
 It is a splendid thing to have thy liberty."
 "Well," he said, "here I am, seated on the emperor's favorite horse,- sitting upon him as if I were the emperor himself.
 They were given to the horse on my account."
 And this reflection put the beetle into a good temper.
 "The world is not so bad after all, if you know how to take things as they come.
 "Ding-dong! ding-dong!" sounded the Bell, when the tower still stood there; and one evening, while the sun was setting, and the Bell was swinging away bravely, it broke loose and came flying down through the air, the brilliant metal shining in the ruddy beam.
 "Ding-dong! ding-dong!
 Now I'll retire to rest!" sang the Bell, and flew down into the Odense-Au, where it is deepest; and that is why the place is called the "bell-deep."
 Down in the Au-mann's haunt it sounds and rings, so that the tones sometimes pierce upward through the waters; and many people maintain that its strains forebode the death of some one; but that is not true, for the Bell is only talking with the Au-mann, who is now no longer alone.
 Ding-dong! ding-dong!"
 "The church bell hangs high, and looks far around, and sees the birds around it, and understands their language.
 The wind roars in upon it through windows and loopholes; and the wind knows everything, for he gets it from the air, which encircles all things, and the church bell understands his tongue, and rings it out into the world, 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
 It is around us, it is in us, it talks of our thoughts and of our deeds, and it speaks longer of them than does the Bell down in the depths of the Odense-Au where the Au-mann dwells.
 The sun was shining, the birds were singing, and the confirmed children sang too, holding each other by the hand, for they had no position yet, and they were all equal in the eyes of God.
 "We must try to find out if it is!"
 Therefore they let him go alone; and as he walked on, the solitude of the wood produced a feeling of reverence in his breast; but still he heard the little bell about which the others rejoiced, and sometimes, when the wind blew in that direction, he could hear the sounds from the confectioner's stall, where the others were singing at tea.
 "I will and must find the bell," he said, "if I have to go to the end of the world."
 "Oh, what a splendour!"
 The sea, the great majestic sea, which was rolling its long waves against the shore, stretched out before him, and the sun was standing like a large bright altar and there where sea and heaven met- all melted together in the most glowing colours; the wood was singing, and his heart too.
 The whole of nature was one large holy church, in which the trees and hovering clouds formed the pillars, the flowers and grass the woven velvet carpet, and heaven itself was the great cupola; up there the flame colour vanished as soon as the sun disappeared, but millions of stars were lighted; diamond lamps were shining, and the king's son stretched his arms out towards heaven, towards the sea, and towards the wood.
 And they ran towards each other and took one another's hand, in the great cathedral of nature and poesy, and above them sounded the invisible holy bell; happy spirits surrounded them, singing hallelujahs and rejoicing.
 He seized her hand, he embraced her, and the mother wept.
 They will have no word more to say in the matter, nor will I speak again of all the wrong that my mother has endured."
 Then their anxieties are dispelled; and at even they join in the dance at the feast given in the great hall at Borglum.
 An old maid stood at the window; she had hung chickweed over the cage, and the little linnet which it contained hopped from perch to perch and sang and twittered merrily.
 "Yes, it's all very well for you to sing," said the bottle neck: that is, he did not really speak the words as we do, for the neck of a bottle cannot speak; but he thought them to himself in his own mind, just as people sometimes talk quietly to themselves.
 The little bird sang his own song merrily; in the street below there was driving and running to and fro, every one thought of his own affairs, or perhaps of nothing at all; but the bottle neck thought deeply.
 "Ah, how beautiful is life."
 All these tones of joy and song in the bottle were like the working of a young poet's brain, who often knows not the meaning of the tones which are sounding within him.
 She was young and pretty; her brown eyes laughed, and a smile lingered round her mouth as sweet as that in her eyes.
 It remained there a long time; but when at last it was brought forth it appeared as if something pleasant had happened, for every one was laughing; the furrier's daughter laughed too, but she said very little, and her cheeks were like two roses.
 "Long life to the betrothed," cried the papa, and every glass was emptied to the dregs, while the young sailor kissed his beautiful bride.
 "Happiness and blessing to you both," said the old people-father and mother, and the young man filled the glasses again.
 "Safe return, and a wedding this day next year," he cried; and when the glasses were empty he took the bottle, raised it on high, and said, "Thou hast been present here on the happiest day of my life; thou shalt never be used by others!"
 He could no longer see the betrothed couple, nor the cheerful old people; but for a long time he could hear them rejoicing and singing.
 Those were happy days, and the bottle would sing when rubbed with a cork, and it was called a great lark," "Peter Jensen's lark."
 It had returned home, and the language was as a welcome greeting.
 For very joy, it felt ready to jump out of people's hands, and scarcely noticed that its cork had been drawn, and its contents emptied out, till it found itself carried to a cellar, to be left there and forgotten.
 "There's no place like home, even if it's a cellar."
 It never occurred to him to think that he might lie there for years, he felt so comfortable.
 The stars twinkled; and the new moon, in the form of a crescent, was surrounded by the shadowy disc of the whole moon, and looked like a gray globe with a golden rim: it was a beautiful sight for those who had good eyes.
 Everything here appeared lovely to our bottle, for it was again in the green wood, amid joy and feasting; again it heard music and song, and the noise and murmur of a crowd, especially in that part of the garden where the lamps blazed, and the paper lanterns displayed their brilliant colors.
 It stood in a distant walk certainly, but a place pleasant for contemplation; and it carried a light; and was at once useful and ornamental.
 It seemed to the bottle as if he were living that time over again.
 Not only the guests but other people were walking in the garden, who were allowed to witness the splendor and the festivities.
 She was thinking, like the bottle, of the green wood, and of a young betrothed pair, who were closely connected with herself; she was thinking of that hour, the happiest of her life, in which she had taken part, when she had herself been one of that betrothed pair; such hours are never to be forgotten, let a maiden be as old as she may.
 The rabbit was quite excited because he knew that he was to be taken up, and let down again in a parachute.
 Then the ropes which held it were cut through, and the aerial ship rose in the air with the aeronaut and the basket containing the bottle and the rabbit, while the music sounded and all the people shouted "Hurrah."
 "This is a wonderful journey up into the air," thought the bottle; "it is a new way of sailing, and here, at least, there is no fear of striking against anything."
 Then they hung it in the cage of the little bird, who sang and twittered more merrily than ever.
 Do you see how splendidly the tree has grown?
 Before the sprig you gave me faded, I took a spray, and planted it in the earth; and now, as you see, it has become a large tree, and a bunch of the blossoms shall at last appear at a wedding festival, in the bouquet of your daughter."
 Corn grows in the surrounding fields, not only rye and barley, but oats,-pretty oats that, when ripe, look like a number of little golden canary-birds sitting on a bough.
 The corn has a smiling look and the heaviest and richest ears bend their heads low as if in pious humility.
 The buckwheat did not bend like the other grain, but erected its head proudly and stiffly on the stem.
 "I am as valuable as any other corn," said he, "and I am much handsomer; my flowers are as beautiful as the bloom of the apple blossom, and it is a pleasure to look at us.
 Do you know of anything prettier than we are, you old willow-tree?"
 Proudly and boldly he looked up, while the lightning flashed across the sky as if the whole world were in flames.
 "See," they said, how the sun shines, and the clouds float in the blue sky.
 THERE was once a butterfly who wished for a bride, and, as may be supposed, he wanted to choose a very pretty one from among the flowers.
 The butterfly came also to Marguerite to inquire, but he did not pluck off her leaves; he pressed a kiss on each of them, for he thought there was always more to be done by kindness.
 "They are very pretty," thought the butterfly; "charming little lasses; but they are rather formal."
 The pea-blossom pleased him most of all; she was white and red, graceful and slender, and belonged to those domestic maidens who have a pretty appearance, and can yet be useful in the kitchen.
 You know, this plant has no blossom; but it is sweetness all over,- full of fragrance from head to foot, with the scent of a flower in every leaf.
 "I will take her," said the butterfly; and he made her an offer.
 He could exist here, he said, well enough.
 Then he flew against the window-pane, and was seen and admired by those in the room, who caught him, and stuck him on a pin, in a box of curiosities.
 So I have inherited from him, not only my good temper, but a habit of going often to the churchyard, which is good, when done in a proper humor; and then also I take in the Intelligencer, just as he used to do.
 I am not very young, I have neither wife nor children, nor a library, but, as I said, I read the Intelligencer, which is enough for me; it is to me a delightful paper, and so it was to my father.
 The newspaper and the churchyard were always exciting objects to me.
 It is beautiful to observe how wisely nature orders these things.
 At last he felt convinced, in his own mind, that he really had one, and was so delighted that he positively died of joy at the thought of having at last caught an idea.
 Let them bury the offenders out of sight, and keep their good temper.
 "The man with a cheerful temper."
 "My sweet, darling mother," she heard the child say.
 It was the well-known, beloved voice; and kiss followed kiss, in boundless delight.
 "There is nothing so beautiful on earth as it is here.
 Oh, it is happiness indeed."
 "I can fly now, mother," said the child; "I can fly with other happy children into the presence of the Almighty.
 And when she had offered this prayer, her heart felt lighter.
 Everything around her seemed holy, and her heart was chastened.
 She bent over her husband, who still slept; her warm, devoted kiss awakened him, and words of heartfelt love fell from the lips of both.
 Now she was gentle and strong as a wife can be; and from her lips came the words of faith: "Whatever He doeth is right and best."
 And as she kissed him and her children, she said, "It came from God, through my child in the grave."
 Now I have a great opinion of the yard cock on the plank; he is certainly of much more importance than the weather-cock who is placed so high and can't even creak, much less crow.
 His step is a dance!
 His crowing is music, and wherever he goes one knows what a trumpeter is like!
 Even if he ate me up stump, stalk, and all, and I had to dissolve in his body, it would be a happy death," said the cucumber.
 And the hens and chickens came up on the dung-hill, and the cock strutted about like a lord.
 "A happy death!"
 The hens and the chickens came, for where one runs the others run too; they clucked, and chirped, and looked at the cock, and were proud that he was of their kind.
 "Cock-a-doodle-doo!" he crowed, "the chickens will grow up into great hens at once, if I cry it out in the poultry-yard of the world!"
 And hens and chicks clucked and chirped, and the cock announced a great piece of news.
 "A cock can lay an egg!
 And do you know what's in that egg?
 No one can stand the sight of such a thing; people know that, and now you know it too- you know what is in me, and what a champion of all cocks I am!"
 With that the yard cock flapped his wings, made his comb swell up, and crowed again; and they all shuddered, the hens and the little chicks- but they were very proud that one of their number was such a champion of all cocks.
 They clucked and chirped till the weather-cock heard; he heard it; but he did not stir.
 It did not mind that nobody saw it in the grass, and that it was a poor despised flower; on the contrary, it was quite happy, and turned towards the sun, looking upward and listening to the song of the lark high up in the air.
 The little daisy was as happy as if the day had been a great holiday, but it was only Monday.
 All the children were at school, and while they were sitting on the forms and learning their lessons, it sat on its thin green stalk and learnt from the sun and from its surroundings how kind God is, and it rejoiced that the song of the little lark expressed so sweetly and distinctly its own feelings.
 "I can see and hear," it thought; "the sun shines upon me, and the forest kisses me.
 How rich I am!"
 Thank God, that I stand so near and can at least see all the splendour."
 Its joy was so great that it did not know what to think.
 The little bird hopped round it and sang, "How beautifully soft the grass is, and what a lovely little flower with its golden heart and silver dress is growing here."
 How happy the daisy was!
 Half ashamed, yet glad at heart, it looked over to the other flowers in the garden; surely they had witnessed its pleasure and the honour that had been done to it; they understood its joy.
 The daisy was glad that it was outside, and only a small flower- it felt very grateful.
 "So now I am a breast-pin," said the darning-needle; "I knew very well I should come to honor some day: merit is sure to rise;" and she laughed, quietly to herself, for of course no one ever saw a darning-needle laugh.
 And there she sat as proudly as if she were in a state coach, and looked all around her.
 So the darning-needle kept up her proud behavior, and did not lose her good humor.
 "I suppose you are really a diamond?" she said.
 "I have been in a lady's work-box," said the darning-needle, "and this lady was the cook.
 She had on each hand five fingers, and anything so conceited as these five fingers I have never seen; and yet they were only employed to take me out of the box and to put me back again."
 And so she sat there in her pride, and had many such thoughts as these,- "I could almost fancy that I came from a sunbeam, I am so fine.
 It was dirty work, but they took great pleasure in it.
 The sealing-wax had come off, and she was quite black; but black makes a person look slender, so she thought herself even finer than before.
 My father has told me this, and I have not forgotten it!
 Now I will free you, Mrs. Meta Mogen!"
 Then they pulled the horses out of the stable and rode off in rain and wind to obtain the assistance of friends.
 "Thus the small service done to the old man was richly rewarded!" said Meta Mogen.
 The robbers were hanged.
 In the garden grow roses; the mistress of the house is herself the finest rose petal, she beams with joy, the joy of good deeds: however, not done in the wide world, but in her heart, and what is preserved there is not forgotten.
 But to-day the sun shines here- the warm, beautiful sun of God is within the little room; it comes from the south through the new window, where formerly the wall was.
 The paralysed girl sits in the warm sunshine and can see the wood and the lake; the world had become so large, so beautiful, and only through a single word from the kind mistress of the mansion.
 "The word was so easy, the deed so small," she said, "the joy it afforded me was infinitely great and sweet!"
 And therefore she does many a good deed, thinks of all in the humble cottages and in the rich mansions, where there are also afflicted ones.
 It is concealed and hidden, but God does not forget it.
 Delayed is not forgotten!
 One day she was engaged to a poor fellow; they loved each other dearly.
 They tear off each other's legs. and arms and bodies, before and behind; and yet they are merry and joyful in their way.
 And now the wonderful little creatures were pink all over.
 "Yes, if you can guess what it is," said Kribble-Krabble, "I'll make you a present of it."
 "That's Paris, or some other great city, for they're all alike.
 It's a great city!"
 "I shall win the Princess!"
 I do feel so desperately inclined to marry!
 If she accepts me, she accepts me; and if she won't have me, I'll have her; but she shall be mine!"
 "Hei, houp! that was a ride!
 Here I come!" shouted Jack the Dullard, and he sang till his voice echoed far and wide.
 "Hallo!" shouted Jack the Dullard.
 "Here am I!
 "With the crow? why, I am going to give it to the Princess."
 "Yes, do so," said they; and they laughed, and rode on.
 "Hurrah! it is quite famous."
 "Oh," said Jack the Dullard, "I can hardly tell you.
 How glad the Princess will be!"
 "Yes, certainly it is," said Jack the Dullard; "and clay of the finest sort.
 See, it is so wet, it runs through one's fingers."
 "Ah, that's lucky!" exclaimed Jack the Dullard, "for I suppose you'll let me roast my crow at the same time?"
 "With the greatest pleasure," said the Princess.
 "Certainly I have!" said Jack.
 "Well, that is a famous dish!" said the Princess.
 "I like that!" said the Princess.
 "You can give an answer, and you have something to say for yourself, and so you shall be my husband.
 But she only said this to frighten Jack the Dullard; and the clerks gave a great crow of delight, and each one spurted a blot out of his pen on to the floor.
 "That was very cleverly done," observed the Princess.
 The cloth which covered his face was lifted up; the dead man's face expressed peace- a sunbeam fell upon it.
 He fixed the leaf to the student's cap in the green wood, when they vowed eternal friendship.
 The elfin maidens we're already dancing on the elf hill, and they danced in shawls woven from moonshine and mist, which look very pretty to those who like such things.
 "Give me my crown," said the elf king, "and let me stand in the moonshine."
 "She will make a good housewife," said the old goblin, and then saluted her with his eyes instead of drinking her health; for he did not drink much.
 So she took him by the wrist, and he laughed till he nearly choked; and when she came to the fourth finger, there was a gold ring on it, as if it knew there was to be a betrothal.
 Then the old goblin said, "Hold fast what you have: this hand is yours; for I will have you for a wife myself."
 How merry we shall be!
 It is indeed very pleasant to live in old Norway.
 But the old goblin danced about the room with his young bride, and exchanged boots with her, which is more fashionable than exchanging rings.
 But the lizards continued to run up and down the riven tree; and one said to the other, "Oh, how much I was pleased with the old goblin!"
 During the whole day he enjoyed himself in the warm sunshine, flew from flower to flower, and danced on the wings of the flying butterflies.
 Her wicked brother stopped over her, and laughed hideously, as fiends only can laugh.
 Her brother often came into the room, and would be quite cheerful, in spite of his base conduct; so she dare not say a word to him of her heart's grief.
 Sweetly she dreamed, and while she dreamt, her life passed away calmly and gently, and her spirit was with him whom she loved, in heaven.
 "Now have we revenged the dead," said they, and flew back into the white bells of the jasmine flowers.
 And the queen bee hummed in the air, and sang of the revenge of the flowers, and of the elf of the rose and said that behind the smallest leaf dwells One, who can discover evil deeds, and punish them also.
 The great city where he resided was very gay; every day many strangers from all parts of the globe arrived.
 "If I were to be dressed in a suit made of this cloth I should be able to find out which men in my empire were unfit for their places, and I could distinguish the clever from the stupid.
 I must have this cloth woven for me without delay."
 "I should very much like to know how they are getting on with the cloth," thought the emperor.
 "Oh, it is very pretty, exceedingly beautiful," replied the old minister looking through his glasses.
 "What a beautiful pattern, what brilliant colours!
 I shall tell the emperor that I like the cloth very much."
 "We are pleased to hear that," said the two weavers, and described to him the colours and explained the curious pattern.
 "Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth?" asked the two swindlers, showing and explaining the magnificent pattern, which, however, did not exist.
 It is very strange, but I must not let any one know it;" and he praised the cloth, which he did not see, and expressed his joy at the beautiful colours and the fine pattern.
 "It is very excellent," he said to the emperor.
 "Is it not magnificent?" said the two old statesmen who had been there before.
 "Really," he said, turning to the weavers, "your cloth has our most gracious approval;" and nodding contentedly he looked at the empty loom, for he did not like to say that he saw nothing.
 "It is magnificent, beautiful, excellent," one heard them say; everybody seemed to be delighted, and the emperor appointed the two swindlers "Imperial Court weavers."
 The emperor and all his barons then came to the hall; the swindlers held their arms up as if they held something in their hands and said: "These are the trousers!"
 "This is the coat!" and "Here is the cloak!" and so on.
 "They are all as light as a cobweb, and one must feel as if one had nothing at all upon the body; but that is just the beauty of them."
 "Indeed!" said all the courtiers; but they could not see anything, for there was nothing to be seen.
 "How well they look!
 How well they fit!" said all.
 "What a beautiful pattern!
 What fine colours!
 That is a magnificent suit of clothes!"
 "Does not my suit fit me marvellously?"
 What a long train he has!
 How well it fits him!"
 The sun shone, and the soft air fluttered its leaves, and the little peasant children passed by, prattling merrily, but the fir-tree heeded them not.
 They are dressed up in the most splendid manner.
 Yes, what follows will be grander and more splendid.
 "Rejoice with us," said the air and the sunlight.
 "Enjoy thine own bright life in the fresh air."
 Oh, it was very beautiful!
 "This evening," they all exclaimed, "how bright it will be!"
 "Oh, that the evening were come," thought the tree, "and the tapers lighted! then I shall know what else is going to happen.
 It trembled so with joy in all its branches, that one of the candles fell among the green leaves and burnt some of them.
 For a moment the little ones stood silent with astonishment, and then they shouted for joy, till the room rang, and they danced merrily round the tree, while one present after another was taken from it.
 The children then danced about with their pretty toys, and no one noticed the tree, except the children's maid who came and peeped among the branches to see if an apple or a fig had been forgotten.
 "A story, a story," cried the children, pulling a little fat man towards the tree.
 And the children clapped their hands and cried, "Tell another, tell another," for they wanted to hear the story of "Ivede-Avede;" but they only had "Humpty Dumpty."
 "Ah! yes, so it happens in the world," thought the fir-tree; he believed it all, because it was related by such a nice man.
 "Ah! well," he thought, "who knows? perhaps I may fall down too, and marry a princess;" and he looked forward joyfully to the next evening, expecting to be again decked out with lights and playthings, gold and fruit.
 "Now," thought the fir, "all my splendor is going to begin again."
 "Happy!" exclaimed the fir-tree, and then as he reflected upon what he had been telling them, he said, "Ah, yes! after all those were happy days."
 But when he went on and related all about Christmas-eve, and how he had been dressed up with cakes and lights, the mice said, "How happy you must have been, you old fir-tree."
 "What splendid stories you can relate," said the little mice.
 The more he talked the more he remembered, and then he thought to himself, "Those were happy days, but they may come again.
 And the fir-tree thought of the pretty little birch-tree that grew in the forest, which was to him a real beautiful princess.
 And then the tree related the whole story; he could remember every single word, and the little mice was so delighted with it, that they were ready to jump to the top of the tree.
 "Now life is beginning again," said the tree, rejoicing in the sunshine and fresh air.
 "Now I shall live," cried the tree, joyfully spreading out its branches; but alas! they were all withered and yellow, and it lay in a corner amongst weeds and nettles.
 In the same courtyard two of the merry children were playing who had danced round the tree at Christmas, and had been so happy.
 "People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen.
 How fortunate I am; it makes me so happy, it is such a pleasant thing to know that something can be made of me.
 How the sunshine cheers me, and how sweet and refreshing is the rain; my happiness overpowers me, no one in the world can feel happier than I am."
 I am the happiest of all creatures."
 "Well, I have been very happy," he thought in the midst of his pain, "and must be contented with the past;" and contented he remained till he was put on the loom, and became a beautiful piece of white linen.
 "Well, this is quite wonderful; I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune.
 How wonderful it is, that after all I have suffered, I am made something of at last; I am the luckiest person in the world- so strong and fine; and how white, and what a length!
 Then I had no attention, nor any water unless it rained; now, I am watched and taken care of.
 I cannot be happier than I am now."
 This was my destiny; it is quite a blessing.
 Now I shall be of some use in the world, as everyone ought to be; it is the only way to be happy.
 It is most extraordinary good fortune."
 "I am now finer than ever, and I shall be written upon, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me.
 "I never imagined anything like this," said the paper, "when I was only a little blue flower, growing in the fields.
 How could I fancy that I should ever be the means of bringing knowledge and joy to man?
 Each time I think that the song is ended; and then something higher and better begins for me.
 I am happier than ever."
 His son inherited his wealth, and he lived a merry life with it; he went to a masquerade every night, made kites out of five pound notes, and threw pieces of gold into the sea instead of stones, making ducks and drakes of them.
 Then she awoke, and was very much frightened; but he told her he was a Turkish angel, who had come down through the air to see her, which pleased her very much.
 'Ah! then we grew on the green boughs, and were as green as they; every morning and evening we were fed with diamond drops of dew.
 Whenever the sun shone, we felt his warm rays, and the little birds would relate stories to us as they sung.
 On the Baltic Sea, near the Danish shore'- "'What a pretty commencement!' said the plates; 'we shall all like that story, I am sure.'
 "'That is quite true,' said the water-bucket; and he made a spring with joy, and splashed some water on the floor.
 "The plates rattled with pleasure, and the carpet-broom brought some green parsley out of the dust-hole and crowned the saucepan, for he knew it would vex the others; and he thought, 'If I crown him to-day he will crown me to-morrow.'
 "'Now, let us have a dance,' said the fire-tongs; and then how they danced and stuck up one leg in the air.
 There was nothing remarkable about the pen, excepting that it had been dipped too deeply in the ink, but it was proud of that.
 "'Now then,' they thought, 'every one will see that we are the first.
 How we shine; what a light we give!'
 "What a capital story," said the queen, "I feel as if I were really in the kitchen, and could see the matches; yes, you shall marry our daughter."
 "Certainly," said the king, "thou shalt have our daughter."
 The street boys stood on tiptoe and shouted "hurrah," and whistled between their fingers; altogether it was a very splendid affair.
 As soon as the merchant's son had come down in his flying trunk to the wood after the fireworks, he thought, "I will go back into the town now, and hear what they think of the entertainment."
 At times the snow would be piled so high around our hut as almost to hide it, and then my mother appeared most cheerful.
 She would hold my head between her hands, and sing the songs she never sang at other times, for the Turks, our masters, would not allow it.
 The music sounded, and the people left the church hand-in-hand, with joy and gladness.
 How peaceful and silent it was as we walked on through the thick, wild thyme, still fragrant, though the sun had scorched the leaves.
 He said he had been longing to see us so much; and he remained with us two whole happy days.
 "I think what you once told me, the finest of all," he replied; "you told me of a thing that has never been out of my thoughts- of the good old custom of 'the bond of friendship,'- a custom I should like to follow.
 Brother, let you and I go to church, as your father and Anastasia's father once did.
 Your sister Anastasia is the most beautiful and most innocent of maidens, and she shall consecrate the deed.
 Anastasia blushed like a young rose, and my mother kissed Aphtanides.
 Then she joined out hands and kissed us on the forehead, and we again prayed silently.
 I threw my arms round her, and pressed my lips to hers.
 This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask; but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun.
 "Now I shall go and tell the student," said the goblin; and with these words he went quietly up the back stairs to the garret where the student lived.
 The student no doubt had blown out his candle and gone to bed; but the little goblin remained standing there nevertheless, and listening to the music which still sounded on, soft and beautiful, a sweet cradle-song for the student, who had lain down to rest."
 "This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing.
 I should like to stay here with the student;" and the little man thought it over, for he was a sensible little spirit.
 But after what he had seen, the goblin could no longer sit and listen quietly to the wisdom and understanding down stairs; so, as soon as the evening light glimmered in the garret, he took courage, for it seemed to him as if the rays of light were strong cables, drawing him up, and obliging him to go and peep through the keyhole; and, while there, a feeling of vastness came over him such as we experience by the ever-moving sea, when the storm breaks forth; and it brought tears into his eyes.
 And when Christmas came again, and brought the dish of jam and the great lump of butter, he liked the huckster best of all.
 "My golden treasure, my riches, my sunshine!" said the mother; and she kissed the shining locks, and it sounded like music and song in the room of the drummer; and there was joy, and life, and movement.
 The drummer beat a roll- a roll of joy.
 "Celebrity is always something!" said the drummer; and so he scratched his own name there, and his little son's name likewise.
 "Peter's name will last a full year and a half longer!" said the father.
 He was a boy full of life and gladness, this drummer's son with the red hair.
 "He shall sing in the church, and stand among the beautiful gilded angels who are like him!"
 "But suppose he came back a general!" said the father.
 The little drummer still kept his healthy color; he had suffered no damage; he looked cheerfully at the dog of the regiment, which was jumping along as merrily as if the whole thing had been got up for his amusement, and as if the bullets were only flying about that he might have a game of play with them.
 The dog of the regiment sprang on in front with large bounds, and made the way three times as long for himself as it really was.
 He was as brown as a wild man, and his eyes were bright, and his face beamed like sunshine.
 And his mother held him in her arms; she kissed his lips, his forehead, and his red hair.
 They laughed and they wept; and Peter embraced the old Fire-drum.
 "Bright day! fire in the heart! golden treasure! skrat! skr-r-at! skr-r-r-r-at!"
 It seemed too much for him to bear; and this happened not once, but many times; and at last one day he seized the delicate fingers and the white hand, and kissed it, and looked into her great brown eyes.
 Charlotte blushed to guess at it.
 "To be famous!"
 "And then he looks so splendid!" said the young ladies and the old ladies too; and the oldest of all procured an album for famous locks of hair, wholly and solely that she might beg a lock of his rich splendid hair, that treasure, that golden treasure.
 And the son came into the poor room of the drummer, elegant as a prince, happier than a king.
 His eyes were as clear and his face was as radiant as sunshine; and he held his mother in his arms, and she kissed his mouth, and wept as blissfully as any one can weep for joy; and he nodded at every old piece of furniture in the room, at the cupboard with the tea-cups, and at the flower-vase.
 Now I must do it!"
 And he beat a thundering roll-call on the instrument, and the Drum felt so highly honored that the parchment burst with exultation.
 "He has a splendid touch!" said the Drum.
 "I've a remembrance of him now that will last.
 "I must tell you," said she, "that to-day is my birthday; and in honor of it I have been intrusted with a pair of goloshes, to introduce amongst mankind.
 "That is very old," said the counsellor, becoming quite cheerful at the sight of this antique drawing.
 "Where did you get this singular sheet?
 "Modestia is a beautiful virtue," said the man.
 "Oh yes," replied the counsellor; "I am very fond of reading useful old books, and modern ones as well, with the exception of every-day stories, of which we really have more than enough.
 "Oh," replied the man, with a smile; "and yet they are very witty, and are much read at Court.
 "Yes, this is East Street; how beautifully bright and gay it looks!
 He thought of all the terror and anxiety which he had undergone, and felt thankful from his heart for the reality and comfort of modern times, which, with all their errors, were far better than those in which he so lately found himself.
 "What a free, happy man you are.
 This is a splendid spring day for a poet, the air is so remarkably clear, the clouds are so beautiful, and the green grass has such a sweet smell.
 For many years I have not felt as I do at this moment."
 "What a delightful perfume," said he; "it reminds me of the violets at Aunt Lora's.
 It is overpowering, and yet it is delightful."
 As the clerk thought of all these things, and became conscious of the great change in his own feelings, he smiled, and said to himself, "I must be asleep and dreaming; and yet, if so, how wonderful for a dream to be so natural and real, and to know at the same time too that it is but a dream.
 He felt what was taking place, and laughed to himself.
 "Well," thought he, "this is charming; by day I sit in a police-office, amongst the dryest law papers, and at night I can dream that I am a lark, flying about in the gardens of Fredericksburg.
 "It will please Polly perhaps," she said, laughing at a large gray parrot, who was swinging himself proudly on a ring in a handsome brass cage.
 Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Polly, and repeated his witty saying, "Now let us be men."
 "Oh, to travel, to travel!" cried he; "there is no greater happiness in the world: it is the height of my ambition.
 "Ah, how much good that does, and how it warms me," she said; "it is as good as a hot meal, and not so dear.
 The warm beer had strengthened her, and the smell of the good food had been pleasant to her.
 "Many thanks, you good soul," she said to Martha.
 I went up to him, and took his hand, and said, 'Do you still feel the same for me?' 'Yes; ever and always,' said he.
 'Will you, then, marry a maiden who honors and esteems you, although she cannot offer you her love? but that may come.' 'Yes, it will come,' said he; and we joined our hands together, and I went home to my mistress.
 Then my mistress threw her arms round me, and kissed me.
 "Ah, yes, and you were a dear, good mistress," said Martha, "I shall never forget how kind you and your husband were to me."
 "Yes, those were happy years when you were with us, although we had no children at first.
 And then she can tell the most wonderful stories.
 She has a hymn-book with large silver clasps, in which she often reads; and in the book, between the leaves, lies a rose, quite flat and dry; it is not so pretty as the roses which are standing in the glass, and yet she smiles at it most pleasantly, and tears even come into her eyes.
 Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,- they have been left to grandmother.
 At her side sits a young man, tall and strong; he gives her a rose and she smiles.
 We could hear her gentle breathing as she slept; gradually it became quieter and calmer, and on her countenance beamed happiness and peace.
 It was as if lighted up with a ray of sunshine.
 She smiled once more, and then people said she was dead.
 She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile.
 They are better off than we are; the dead return no more.
 But over the grave fresh roses bloom, the nightingale sings, and the organ sounds and there still lives a remembrance of old grandmother, with the loving, gentle eyes that always looked young.
 This proposal was adopted by acclamation.
 Many were noticed to go about on that afternoon with only one suspender; but then they had seen Puggie's grave, and the sight was worth much more.
 But in front of the tan-yard, close to the entrance, stood a little girl clothed in rags, very pretty to look at, with curly hair, and eyes so blue and clear that it was a pleasure to look into them.
 The great white snails, which grand people in olden times used to have made into fricassees; and when they had eaten them, they would say, "O, what a delicious dish!" for these people really thought them good; and these snails lived on burdock-leaves, and for them the burdock was planted.
 They lived quite retired and very happily; and as they had no children of their own, they had adopted a little common snail, which they brought up as their own child.
 "There come the drops," said the mother; "they are trickling down the stalks.
 We shall have it very wet here presently.
 I am very glad we have such good houses, and that the little one has one of his own.
 There has been really more done for us than for any other creature; it is quite plain that we are the most noble people in the world.
 "There can be nothing better than we have here," said the father-snail; "I wish for nothing more."
 I feel quite giddy when I look at him."
 He will be the joy of our home; and we old folks have nothing else to live for.
 "She has a palace," replied the ant,- "a most beautiful ant-palace with seven hundred passages."
 "Thank-you," said the mother-snail; "but our boy shall not go to live in an ant-hill.
 But a beautiful speech was made by the mother-snail.
 The father could not speak; he was too much overcome.
 Then they gave the whole burdock forest to the young snails as an inheritance, and repeated what they had so often said, that it was the finest place in the world, and that if they led upright and honorable lives, and their family increased, they and their children might some day be taken to the nobleman's palace, to be boiled black, and laid on a silver dish.
 And the rain fell upon the burdock-leaves, to play the drum for them, and the sun shone to paint colors on the burdock forest for them, and they were very happy; the whole family were entirely and perfectly happy.
 "They imagined evil in their hearts, but God turned it to good."
 The girl stood still before the wonderful plant, for the green leaves exhaled a sweet and refreshing fragrance, and the flowers glittered and sparkled in the sunshine like colored flames, and the harmony of sweet sounds lingered round them as if each concealed within itself a deep fount of melody, which thousands of years could not exhaust.
 With pious gratitude the girl looked upon this glorious work of God, and bent down over one of the branches, that she might examine the flower and inhale the sweet perfume.
 Then a light broke in on her mind, and her heart expanded.
 In the forest the wonderful plant still continued to bloom till it grew and became almost a tree, and all the birds of passage bowed themselves before it.
 The botanical professor wrote a long treatise about the heavenly plant, and for this he was loaded with gold, which improved the position of himself and his family.
 And the old grandfather nodded again; and the more he looked at Holger Danske, the more satisfied he felt that he had carved a good image of him.
 "That is the most beautiful coat of arms in the world," said the old man.
 And the third flame led him to Greenland's wretched huts, where the preacher, Hans Egede, ruled with love in every word and action.
 I was on board the Denmark, in Steene Bille's squadron; I had a man by my side whom even the cannon balls seemed to fear.
 He sung old songs in a merry voice, and fired and fought as if he were something more than a man.
 Then the daughter-in-law kissed the old grandfather, and led him to a large arm-chair by the table; and she, and her husband, who was the son of the old man and the father of the little boy who lay in bed, sat down to supper with him.
 Holger Danske can appear in marble, so that people in all countries of the world may hear of the strength of Denmark.
 Now let us drink the health of Bertel."
 And Holger Danske did dream of the little humble room in which the image-carver sat; he heard all that had been said, and he nodded in his dream, saying, "Ah, yes, remember me, you Danish people, keep me in your memory, I will come to you in the hour of need."
 Ib and Christina agreed together in everything; they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry; they were partners in digging their little gardens; they ran, and crept, and played about everywhere.
 They floated on swiftly, for the tide was in their favor, passing over lakes, formed by the stream in its course; sometimes they seemed quite enclosed by reeds and water-plants, yet there was always room for them to pass out, although the old trees overhung the water and the old oaks stretched out their bare branches, as if they had turned up their sleeves and wished to show their knotty, naked arms.
 The water-lilies waved themselves to and fro on the river, everything made the excursion beautiful, and at last they came to the great eel-weir, where the water rushed through the flood-gates; and the children thought this a beautiful sight.
 They looked so inviting that the children could not help stopping; and they remained there so long eating, that their mouths and cheeks became quite black with the juice.
 Ib looked at her, and as she spoke so kindly, he took courage, and asked her if she would give him the nuts; and the woman gave them to him, and then gathered some more from the bushes for herself, quite a pocket full.
 "Then I will have that one also," said Christina; "and it is a pretty one too.
 "The best of all things for you," replied the gypsy.
 In the wild wood-path they met a forester who knew Ib, and, by his help, Ib and Christina reached home, where they found every one had been very anxious about them.
 He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
 Christina, however, was quite at her ease; she talked and talked, and kissed him in the most friendly manner.
 Even afterwards, when they were left alone, and she asked, "Did you know me again, Ib?" he still stood holding her hand, and said at last, "You are become quite a grand lady, Christina, and I am only a rough working man; but I have often thought of you and of old times."
 His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
 "Oh yes," she replied; "Let us wait a little longer, Ib.
 I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
 Then he kissed her lips; and so they parted.
 He understood the gypsy woman's meaning now.
 "You have found in the earth the best thing you could find," said the magistrate.
 Well, if it really is so, then the gypsy woman was right in her prophecy."
 All was life and joy.
 Ib's house was well and prettily furnished; for he was a prosperous man now, while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen, where she had died in poverty.
 This person, moreover, maintained that he belonged to a very old family in the land of Egypt, and that he was highly esteemed there.
 "I sing so," he said, "that sixteen native crickets who have chirped from their youth up, and have never yet had a card house of their own, would become thinner than they are with envy if they were to hear me."
 On many a warm summer, the Ephemera, the flies that exist for only a day, had fluttered about the old oak, enjoyed life and felt happy and if, for a moment, one of the tiny creatures rested on one of his large fresh leaves, the tree would always say, "Poor little creature! your whole life consists only of a single day.
 "Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
 You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
 And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
 The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
 Its wings could sustain it no longer, and gently and slowly it glided down upon the soft waving blades of grass, nodded its little head as well as it could nod, and slept peacefully and sweetly.
 The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
 The tree had, doubtless, a kind of feeling that the festive time had arrived, and in his dream fancied he heard the bells ringing from all the churches round, and yet it seemed to him to be a beautiful summer's day, mild and warm.
 His mighty summits was crowned with spreading fresh green foliage; the sunbeams played among the leaves and branches, and the air was full of fragrance from herb and blossom; painted butterflies chased each other; the summer flies danced around him, as if the world had been created merely for them to dance and be merry in.
 He saw lovers meet in quiet happiness near him in the moonshine, and carve the initials of their names in the grayish-green bark on his trunk.
 Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
 Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
 The tree felt itself stretching and spreading out, while through the root beneath the earth ran the warm vigor of life.
 As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
 At length his longing was satisfied.
 May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
 "Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
 "I have them all here, both great and small; not one has been forgotten.
 Can such happiness be imagined?"
 "It is right so, it is best," said the tree, "no fetters hold me now.
 I can fly up to the very highest point in light and glory.
 And all I love are with me, both small and great.
 All- all are here."
 The sea gradually became calm, and on board a great ship that had withstood the tempest during the night, all the flags were displayed, as a token of joy and festivity.
 Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
 WE are in a rich, happy house, where the master, the servants, the friends of the family are full of joy and felicity.
 For on this day a son and heir has been born, and mother and child are doing well.
 Everything invited to slumber, everything had a charming look of repose; and so the nurse had discovered, for she slept; and well she might sleep, while everything around her told of happiness and blessing.
 "Everything has been bestowed here," said the guardian angel.
 They looked at Little Claus ploughing with his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip, and said, "Gee-up, my five horses."
 "I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other; but as soon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," he became so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horses ploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee-up, all my horses!"
 The farmer's wife and the sexton were sitting at the table together; and she filled his glass, and helped him plenteously to fish, which appeared to be his favorite dish.
 The woman received them both very kindly, laid the cloth on a large table, and placed before them a dish of porridge.
 So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she had hidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry.
 "I should like to see him now, while I am so merry."
 "Oh, I am not afraid.
 "I have been well paid for my horse," said he to himself when he reached home, entered his own room, and emptied all his money into a heap on the floor.
 "With all my heart," replied the drover, opening the sack, from which sprung Little Claus as quickly as possible.
 "Ah, it is because I have been to a church."
 "There you may lie!" he exclaimed; "you will play me no more tricks now."
 "I'll tell you the whole story, and thank you for drowning me; I am above you now, I am really very rich.
 However if you will go there first, and then creep into a sack, I will throw you in with the greatest pleasure."
 "Thank you," said Great Claus; "but remember, if I do not get any sea-cattle down there I shall come up again and give you a good thrashing."
 At the same time, the kind-hearted old man who lived by himself in the upper storey of the house came in; he led a lonely life, for he had no wife and children; but he loved the children of others very much, and he could tell so many fairy tales and stories, that it was a pleasure to hear him.
 "Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
 "Will not one knock soon?" asked the boy; and the mother smiled while she put elder-tree blossoms into the teapot and poured boiling water over them.
 He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
 I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
 Then suddenly some one put his arm round my waist-' "'Yes, and you gave him a hearty smack on the cheek,' said the old man.
 "'I did not know that it was you- you had come as quickly as your letter; and you looked so handsome, and so you do still.
 You looked so well, and the weather in the street was horrible!'
 "'Then we married,' he said.
 'Do you remember how we got our first boy, and then Mary, Niels, Peter, John, and Christian?' 'Oh yes; and now they have all grown up, and have become useful members of society, whom everybody cares for.'
 "'And their children have had children again,' said the old sailor.
 "'Yes, to-day is your golden wedding-day,' said the little elder-tree mother, stretching her head down between the two old people, who thought that she was their neighbour who was nodding to them; they looked at each other and clasped hands.
 The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
 And then she took the little boy out of bed and placed him on her bosom; the elder branches, full of blossoms, closed over them; it was as if they sat in a thick leafy bower which flew with them through the air; it was beautiful beyond all description.
 She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
 "Hooray! now we shall ride far away, many miles!" said the boy; "we shall ride to the nobleman's estate where we were last year."
 It was spring and it became summer, it was autumn and it became winter, and thousands of pictures reflected themselves in the boy's eyes and heart, and the little girl always sang again, "You will never forget that!"
 "Oh! that it were always spring in the fragrant beechwood!"
 "Here it is splendid in summer!" she said, and they passed by old castles of the age of chivalry.
 "One can never forget it!"
 "Here it's agreeable in winter!" said the little girl, and all the trees were covered with hoar-frost, so that they looked like white coral.
 And indeed it was beautiful!
 The little girl with the blue eyes and elder-blossoms in her hair was sitting high up in the tree, and nodded to them, saying, "To-day is the golden wedding!"
 And then she took two flowers out of her wreath and kissed them.
 "How beautiful it was!" said the little boy.
 "Mother, I have been to warm countries!"
 "I believe you," said the mother; "if one takes two cups of hot elder-tea it is quite natural that one gets into warm countries!"
 What do they do that for," she asked, of the student who sat on the sofa; she liked him very much, he could tell the most amusing stories, and cut out the prettiest pictures; hearts, and ladies dancing, castles with doors that opened, as well as flowers; he was a delightful student.
 "When it grows dark, and everybody is asleep, they jump about quite merrily.
 "You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
 "Oh how capital," said little Ida, clapping her hands.
 How he will wonder what has become of them!"
 It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
 "Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
 But to little Ida, all these stories which the student told her about the flowers, seemed very droll, and she thought over them a great deal.
 Then she whispered to them quite softly, "I know you are going to a ball to-night."
 But the flowers appeared as if they did not understand, and not a leaf moved; still Ida felt quite sure she knew all about it.
 She lay awake a long time after she was in bed, thinking how pretty it must be to see all the beautiful flowers dancing in the king's garden.
 She raised herself a little, and glanced at the door of the room where all her flowers and playthings lay; it was partly open, and as she listened, it seemed as if some one in the room was playing the piano, but softly and more prettily than she had ever before heard it.
 "Now all the flowers are certainly dancing in there," she thought, "oh how much I should like to see them," but she did not dare move for fear of disturbing her father and mother.
 Oh what a splendid sight there was to be sure!
 The flowers were dancing gracefully on the floor, making turns and holding each other by their long green leaves as they swung round.
 Then she saw a large purple crocus jump into the middle of the table where the playthings stood, go up to the doll's bedstead and draw back the curtains; there lay the sick flowers, but they got up directly, and nodded to the others as a sign that they wished to dance with them.
 They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
 The carnival rod hopped about among the flowers on its three red stilted feet, and stamped quite loud when it danced the Mazurka; the flowers could not perform this dance, they were too light to stamp in that manner.
 This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
 "Will you dance with me?" said the rough doll.
 But she was not hurt at all, and Ida's flowers thanked her for the use of the nice bed, and were very kind to her.
 Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
 But the flowers thanked her very much, and said,- "We cannot live long.
 Then came many more flowers: blue violets, purple heart's-ease, daisies, and lilies of the valley, and they all danced together, and kissed each other.
 Ida kissed her flowers and then laid them, with the box, in the earth.
 It was really a wonderful light.
 It seemed to the little girl that she was sitting by a large iron stove, with polished brass feet and a brass ornament.
 She lighted another match, and then she found herself sitting under a beautiful Christmas-tree.
 She again rubbed a match on the wall, and the light shone round her; in the brightness stood her old grandmother, clear and shining, yet mild and loving in her appearance.
 And the matches glowed with a light that was brighter than the noon-day, and her grandmother had never appeared so large or so beautiful.
 She took the little girl in her arms, and they both flew upwards in brightness and joy far above the earth, where there was neither cold nor hunger nor pain, for they were with God.
 "Oh, that can be easily managed," said the fairy.
 "Thank you," said the woman, and she gave the fairy twelve shillings, which was the price of the barleycorn.
 "It is a beautiful flower," said the woman, and she kissed the red and golden-colored leaves, and while she did so the flower opened, and she could see that it was a real tulip.
 Here she slept at night, but during the day she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed a plateful of water.
 The old toad bowed low to her in the water, and said, "Here is my son, he will be your husband, and you will live happily in the marsh by the stream."
 Tiny pleased him, and she was glad of it, for now the toad could not possibly reach her, and the country through which she sailed was beautiful, and the sun shone upon the water, till it glittered like liquid gold.
 There dwelt the field-mouse in warmth and comfort, with a whole roomful of corn, a kitchen, and a beautiful dining room.
 She was very pleased with Tiny, so she said, "You are quite welcome to stay with me all the winter, if you like; but you must keep my rooms clean and neat, and tell me stories, for I shall like to hear them very much."
 And Tiny did all the field-mouse asked her, and found herself very comfortable.
 And the mole fell in love with her because she had such a sweet voice; but he said nothing yet, for he was very cautious.
 "Perhaps this was the one who sang to me so sweetly in the summer," she said; "and how much pleasure it gave me, you dear, pretty bird."
 "Thank you, pretty little maiden," said the sick swallow; "I have been so nicely warmed, that I shall soon regain my strength, and be able to fly about again in the warm sunshine."
 Stay in your warm bed; I will take care of you."
 The whole winter the swallow remained underground, and Tiny nursed him with care and love.
 The sun shone in upon them so beautifully, that the swallow asked her if she would go with him; she could sit on his back, he said, and he would fly away with her into the green woods.
 What good fortune for a poor child like you.
 Nothing must be wanting when you are the mole's wife."
 As soon as he spied Tiny, he was delighted; and then she told him how unwilling she felt to marry the ugly mole, and to live always beneath the earth, and never to see the bright sun any more.
 "Yes, I will go with you," said Tiny; and she seated herself on the bird's back, with her feet on his outstretched wings, and tied her girdle to one of his strongest feathers.
 You must choose for yourself one of those lovely flowers, and I will put you down upon it, and then you shall have everything that you can wish to make you happy."
 "That will be delightful," she said, and clapped her little hands for joy.
 "Oh, how beautiful he is!" whispered Tiny to the swallow.
 The little prince was at first quite frightened at the bird, who was like a giant, compared to such a delicate little creature as himself; but when he saw Tiny, he was delighted, and thought her the prettiest little maiden he had ever seen.
 This certainly was a very different sort of husband to the son of a toad, or the mole, with my black velvet and fur; so she said, "Yes," to the handsome prince.
 Then all the flowers opened, and out of each came a little lady or a tiny lord, all so pretty it was quite a pleasure to look at them.
 We will call you Maia."
 He was very proud, and said, "Thorwalsden lived close to me, and here I am now, quite comfortable."
 Within there were songs and dancing; King Waldemar and the young gayly-dressed ladies of the court were dancing together.
 But I am fragrant with perfume, for close to my gates most lovely roses bloom."
 How it sounded like the cry of the frogs on the moor, or like the creaking of great boots when some one is marching,- always the same tone, so monotonous and wearing, that little Tuk at length fell fast asleep, and then the sound could not annoy him.
 The bird of good omen shall be yours, and you shall become a rich and happy man; your house shall rise up like King Waldemar's towers, and shall be richly adorned with marble statues, like those at Prastoe.
 Understand me well; your name shall travel with fame round the world like the ship that was to sail from Corsor, and at Roeskilde,- Don't forget the names of the towns, as King Hroar said,- you shall speak well and clearly little Tuk, and when at last you lie in your grave you shall sleep peacefully, as-" "As if I lay in Soroe," said little Tuk awaking.
 The old washerwoman put her head in at the door, and nodded to him quite kindly, and said, "Many thanks, you good child, for your help yesterday.
 I hope all your beautiful dreams will come true."
 She specially loved roses, and therefore she possessed the most beautiful varieties of this flower, from the wild hedge-rose, with its apple-scented leaves, to the splendid Provence rose.
 "I know where it blooms," said a happy mother, who came with her lovely child to the bedside of the queen.
 "I know where the loveliest rose in the world is.
 It is seen on the blooming cheeks of my sweet child, when it expresses the pure and holy love of infancy; when refreshed by sleep it opens its eyes, and smiles upon me with childlike affection."
 "May she be blessed!" said the wise man: "but no one has yet named the loveliest rose in the world."
 He read, "Greater love hath no man than this," and as he read a roseate hue spread over the cheeks of the queen, and her eyes became so enlightened and clear, that she saw from the leaves of the book a lovely rose spring forth, a type of Him who shed His blood on the cross.
 "I see it," she said.
 "Hurrah! hurrah!" cried the people in the town; for in every house the New Year was being welcomed; and as the clock struck, they stood up, the full glasses in their hands, to drink success to the new comer.
 "A happy New Year," was the cry; "a pretty wife, plenty of money, and no sorrow or care."
 He seemed a merry fellow.
 "We'll dance the bung out of the cask at carnival time," said he; "I'll prepare a merry tune for you and for myself too.
 Hurrah!"
 He looked very jovial, did little work, and had the more holidays.
 "Your health, and God bless you," was her salutation to him.
 How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor a ballad singer; no, but a singer of the woods; for she wandered through the gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement.
 "Now comes the young lady," said those in the carriage; and out stepped a young dame, delicate, proud, and pretty.
 After work, came the recreations, dancing and playing in the greenwood, and the "harvest homes."
 This was an ornament to the jug, and he has a great love for ornament.
 A land-owner followed, who in the month for sowing seed attended to the ploughing and was fond of field sports.
 The dame was very old, but her eyes glistened like two stars.
 "This tree I shall guard and cherish," she said, "that it may grow large by Christmas Eve, and reach from the ground to the ceiling, to be covered and adorned with flaming candles, golden apples, and little figures.
 "Well, now the coach may drive away," said the sentry; "we have the whole twelve.
 The little boy said not a word; he was half pleased and half afraid.
 But the grandest appeared when the door of a side room opened; the little boy could remember what beautiful things he had seen there, but to-night everything shone in its brightest colors.
 As they passed from hall to hall, beauty everywhere showed itself; and as the Metal Pig went step by step from one picture to the other, the little boy could see it all plainly.
 One glory eclipsed another; yet there was one picture that fixed itself on the little boy's memory, more especially because of the happy children it represented, for these the little boy had seen in daylight.
 The Florentine, Angiolo Bronzino, painted this picture; most beautiful is the expression on the face of the two children, who appear to have full confidence that they shall reach heaven at last.
 They are embracing each other, and one little one stretches out his hand towards another who stands below him, and points to himself, as if he were saying, "I am going to heaven."
 The older people stand as if uncertain, yet hopeful, and they bow in humble adoration to the Lord Jesus.
 The boy raised his hands towards the smiling children, and then the Pig ran off with him through the open vestibule.
 "Thank you, thank you, you beautiful animal," said the little boy, caressing the Metal Pig as it ran down the steps.
 "Thanks to yourself also," replied the Metal Pig; "I have helped you and you have helped me, for it is only when I have an innocent child on my back that I receive the power to run.
 "I will stay with you, my dear creature," said the little boy.
 A little white poodle, so closely shaven that his pink skin could plainly be seen, frisked about the room, and gambolled upon the boy.
 "Innocent souls are soon intimate," said the woman, as she caressed both the boy and the dog.
 These good people gave the child food and drink, and said he should stay with them all night, and that the next day the old man, who was called Giuseppe, would go and speak to his mother.
 A little homely bed was prepared for him, but to him who had so often slept on the hard stones it was a royal couch, and he slept sweetly and dreamed of the splendid pictures and of the Metal Pig.
 Then she said, "He is a good lad, he shall stay with us, he may become a clever glovemaker, like you.
 So the boy stayed with them, and the woman herself taught him to sew; and he ate well, and slept well, and became very merry.
 They stopped before the picture by Bronzino, in which Christ is represented as standing in the lower world, with the children smiling before Him, in the sweet expectation of entering heaven; and the poor boy smiled, too, for here was his heaven.
 "You happy creature," he said; "how I have longed for you! we must take a ride to-night."
 Then there was great rejoicing, and the painter caressed the boy, and gave him a number of pictures.
 Oh, what beautiful pictures these were!- figures with funny heads; and, above all, the Metal Pig was there too.
 Oh, nothing could be more delightful.
 The first leisure moment during the next day, the boy got a pencil, and on the back of one of the other drawings he attempted to copy the drawing of the Metal Pig, and he succeeded.
 Certainly it was rather crooked, rather up and down, one leg thick, and another thin; still it was like the copy, and he was overjoyed at what he had done.
 A second pig was drawn by the side of the first, and this looked a hundred times better; and the third attempt was so good, that everybody might know what it was meant to represent.
 His collection of pictures increased; but as yet they were only copies of lifeless objects, when one day Bellissima came gambolling before him: "Stand still," cried he, "and I will draw you beautifully, to put amongst my collection."
 He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value.
 Upon this there was a great uproar; even the engravings, which hung in frames on the wall, turned round in their excitement, and showed that they had a wrong side to them, although they had not the least intention to expose themselves in this way, or to object to the game.
 And as the game was now to begin, all were invited to take part in it, even the children's wagon, which certainly belonged to the coarser playthings.
 When the play at the little theatre began, the rest sat and looked on; they were requested to applaud and stamp, or crack, when they felt gratified with what they saw.
 "I crack for everybody," said the cracker.
 "Yes, and a fine noise you make," thought the audience, as the play went on.
 The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much.
 They all enjoyed the comedy so much, that they gave up all thoughts of the tea party, and only carried out their idea of intellectual amusement, which they called playing at men and women; and there was nothing wrong about it, for it was only play.
 The sun shone among the delicate leaves; everything breathed forth the loveliest fragrance, and all felt as we do when we are filled with joy at the thought of our happiness.
 "How beautiful existence is!" said each rose.
 We have good neighbours, both below and above.
 How beautiful existence is!"
 What a pleasure that must be!
 It is fine to have such cheerful neighbours."
 The whole day long the sun shines bright and warm, and in the night the sky shines more beautifully still; we can see that through all the little holes in it."
 "We make it lively about the house," said the sparrow-mother; "and people say that a swallows' nest brings luck; so they are glad of us.
 But they were very pleased with it, and wondered whether all the little sparrows could become nightingales.
 In the farmhouse lived a young married couple; they loved each other dearly, were industrious and active, and everything in their home looked very nice.
 "Now I see that it is Sunday," said the husband, kissing his little wife.
 They sat down, read their hymn-book, and held each other by the hand, while the sun shone down upon the fresh roses and upon them.
 He was a merry old man, always wandering about.
 "A pleasanter picture cannot be imagined.
 "They are sparrows, and good creatures.
 "Here is excellent fare!" said the sparrow.
 They were full, and so they left the pigeons, exchanging opinions about them, slipped in under the garden palings, and when they found the door leading into the house open, one of them, who was more than full, and therefore felt brave, hopped on to the threshold.
 The pigeons had often cooed, not to say growled- the spiteful creatures; the sparrows had been frozen in winter and had lived merrily in summer: they were all betrothed, or married, or whatever you like to call it.
 The windows of the house were broader at the bottom than at the top, and when the sparrows looked through them, every room appeared to them like a tulip with the brightest colours and shades.
 "How it shines! how it shines!" said the maiden sparrow.
 "I suppose that is 'the beautiful.'
 Good-day! good-day!"
 This is 'the beautiful.'
 All stood with enraptured faces round Thorwaldsen's grave, and a few picked up the fallen rose-leaves and preserved them.
 The painter who had drawn the rose-bush near the ruined house, had afterwards obtained permission to dig it up, and had given it to the architect, for finer roses had never been seen.
 The roses nodded; they recognized their grey neighbours and were pleased to see them again.
 "How glorious it is to live and to bloom, to see old friends again, and happy faces every day.
 It is as if every day were a festival."
 Peep! how they have got on.
 Indeed, everything in the emperor's garden was remarkable, and it extended so far that the gardener himself did not know where it ended.
 Sometimes, when they went at night to spread their nets, they would hear her sing, and say, "Oh, is not that beautiful?"
 Then they would hear it again, and exclaim "Oh, how beautiful is the nightingale's song!"
 The books travelled all over the world, and some of them came into the hands of the emperor; and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, he nodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such a beautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens.
 "It is my pleasure that she shall appear this evening." said the emperor; the whole world knows what I possess better than I do myself."
 Then the tears come into my eyes, and it is just as if my mother kissed me."
 "Hark, hark! there she is," said the girl, "and there she sits," she added, pointing to a little gray bird who was perched on a bough.
 "With the greatest pleasure," said the nightingale, and began to sing most delightfully.
 "My excellent little nightingale," said the courtier, "I have the great pleasure of inviting you to a court festival this evening, where you will gain imperial favor by your charming song."
 The nightingale sang so sweetly that the tears came into the emperor's eyes, and then rolled down his cheeks, as her song became still more touching and went to every one's heart.
 The emperor was so delighted that he declared the nightingale should have his gold slipper to wear round her neck, but she declined the honor with thanks: she had been sufficiently rewarded already.
 "I have seen tears in an emperor's eyes," she said, "that is my richest reward.
 An emperor's tears have wonderful power, and are quite sufficient honor for me;" and then she sang again more enchantingly than ever.
 "That singing is a lovely gift;" said the ladies of the court to each other; and then they took water in their mouths to make them utter the gurgling sounds of the nightingale when they spoke to any one, so thay they might fancy themselves nightingales.
 And the footmen and chambermaids also expressed their satisfaction, which is saying a great deal, for they are very difficult to please.
 "Now they must sing together," said the court, "and what a duet it will be."
 Three and thirty times did it sing the same tunes without being tired; the people would gladly have heard it again, but the emperor said the living nightingale ought to sing something.
 But the music-master praised the bird in the highest degree, and even asserted that it was better than a real nightingale, not only in its dress and the beautiful diamonds, but also in its musical power.
 When they heard it they were like people intoxicated; however it must have been with drinking tea, which is quite a Chinese custom.
 So a year passed, and the emperor, the court, and all the other Chinese knew every little turn in the artificial bird's song; and for that same reason it pleased them better.
 "Thanks, thanks, you heavenly little bird.
 I banished you from my kingdom once, and yet you have charmed away the evil faces from my bed, and banished Death from my heart, with your sweet song.
 "You have already rewarded me," said the nightingale.
 "I shall never forget that I drew tears from your eyes the first time I sang to you.
 These are the jewels that rejoice a singer's heart.
 And as she sung, the emperor fell into a sweet sleep; and how mild and refreshing that slumber was!
 "You must always remain with me," said the emperor.
 I will sit on a bough outside your window, in the evening, and sing to you, so that you may be happy, and have thoughts full of joy.
 I love your heart better than your crown; and yet something holy lingers round that also.
 "There it goes," she said; "the more I pluck, the more beautiful do I get."
 She said this merrily, for she was the best of the hens, and, moreover, as had been said, very respectable.
 It was dark all around, and hen sat close to hen, but the one who sat nearest to her merry neighbour did not sleep.
 "We'll have a play too," he said, "and it may begin immediately."
 Row, dow, dow! how they can stamp and strut!
 "A domestic drama, please," said little Anna, "for the others are so fond of that.
 The Waistcoat has a laydown collar, and is very modest; but he knows his own value, and has quite a right to say what he says: "'I haven't a spot on me!
 I am of real silk, and have strings to me.'
 "'Could I but have my love, Who then so happy as Glove!
 "'O Glove, my own dear, Though it cost thee a tear, Thou must be mine, For Holger Danske has sworn it!'
 "That's exceedingly charming!" cried little Anna.
 "Now comes the exciting part, little Anna.
 "That's a most charming comedy.
 "That's awfully pretty," said little Anna.
 "And now we'll applaud," said grandpapa.
 "Our play is much better," said grandpapa.
 Then they got a flower-pot, filled it with earth, and were soon both very busy and eager about it.
 "They are Molly and me," said the boy.
 "How wonderful they are, and so beautiful!"
 "I may kiss him," she would say proudly, as she threw her arms round his neck; she was vain of her power over Anthony, for he would submit quietly and think nothing of it.
 Molly had told him that she loved him- loved him more than all the splendors of Weimar.
 One stanza pleased him exceedingly-
 "Through the forest, and in the vale, Sweetly warbles the nightingale.
 He was received with a hearty welcome, and introduced to plenty of grand and pleasant company, where overflowing winecups were passed about.
 At times he would think in this way; yet again and again the songs would sound in his soul, and his heart become gentle and pious.
 "God's will is the best," he would then say.
 All has happened for the best.
 "That flourishes still," said he, as he gazed.
 A little spider, which he could however not see, busily and cheerfully spun its web above him, so that there should be a kind of little banner waving over the old man, when his eyes closed.
 The recollection of her pious deeds was as light to the soul of poor Anthony.
 In this way the memory of the kind lady dwelt in the calm mind of Anthony.
 He saw the branches of an apple-tree spreading above him.
 The fragrant leaves of the tree fell upon him and cooled his burning brow; upon his parched lips they seemed like refreshing bread and wine; and as they rested on his breast, a peaceful calm stole over him, and he felt inclined to sleep.
 Glorious! wonderful!
 That apple-tree, planted in love, now appears before me in heavenly beauty."
 In that solemn hour the sweet and joyous chiming filled the hearts of those in the humble dwelling with thankfulness and trust; and when, amidst these joyous sounds, a little son was born to them, the words of prayer and praise arose from their overflowing hearts, and their happiness seemed to ring out over town and country in the liquid tones of the church bells' chime.
 The little one, with its bright eyes and golden hair, had been welcomed joyously on that dark November day.
 Its parents kissed it lovingly, and the father wrote these words in the Bible, "On the tenth of November, 1759, God sent us a son."
 His mother also told him how the chiming of that old bell had once filled her heart with joy and confidence, and that in the midst of the sweet tones her child had been given to her.
 He bowed his head over it and kissed it, old, thrown away, and cracked as it was, and standing there amidst the grass and nettles.
 The maids often laid the clean copper saucepans and kitchen vessels on this stone, that they might dry in the sun, and the children were fond of playing on it.
 Preben and Martha were a fine old couple, and when they both sat on the bench, at the top of the steep stone steps, in front of their house, with the branches of the linden-tree waving above them, and nodded in a gentle, friendly way to passers by, it really made one feel quite happy.
 And then he talked of his wedding-day; and his eyes brightened, and he seemed to be carried back, by his words, to that joyful time.
 All that the boy had heard of Old Preben and his wife seemed clearly defined on the stone, and as he gazed on it, and glanced at the clear, bright moon shining in the pure air, it was as if the light of God's countenance beamed over His beautiful world.
 The old pair shall again wander through the streets arm-in-arm, or sit with their fresh, healthy cheeks on the bench under the lime-tree, and smile and nod at rich and poor.
 At the window of one of them sat a little boy with fresh rosy cheeks, and clear sparkling eyes, who was very fond of the old house, in sunshine or in moonlight.
 Certainly it was a very good house to look at for amusement.
 And the old attendant nodded and looked very pleased, and then he carried the tin soldier into the house.
 "Thank you for the tin soldier my little friend," said the old man, "and thank you also for coming to see me."
 "Thanks, thanks," or "Creak, creak," said all the furniture.
 "Oh," replied the old man, "I have pleasant thoughts of all that has passed, recalled by memory; and now you are come to visit me, and that is very pleasant."
 It was very pleasant, certainly, to be in that old house.
 It is not here like it was in your house opposite, when your father and mother talked so cheerfully together, while you and all the dear children made such a delightful noise.
 Then the old man came back with a pleasant face; and brought with him beautiful preserved fruits, as well as apples and nuts; and the little boy thought no more of the tin soldier.
 How happy and delighted the little boy was; and after he returned home, and while days and weeks passed, a great deal of nodding took place from one house to the other, and then the little boy went to pay another visit.
 You all stood looking very grave, although it was very difficult to do so, but I laughed so to myself that I fell down from the table, and got a bruise, which is there still; I know it was not right to laugh.
 Then he looked at the picture he had bought at the broker's, and his eyes sparkled brightly as he nodded at it, and said, "Ah, she could sing that tune."
 The sparrows assembled in dozens upon the wild vines, and chattered all together as loud as they could, but not about the old house; none of them could remember it, for many years had passed by, so many indeed, that the little boy was now a man, and a really good man too, and his parents were very proud of him.
 He was just married, and had come, with his young wife, to reside in the new house with the garden in front of it, and now he stood there by her side while she planted a field flower that she thought very pretty.
 And the tin soldier felt as if he was recovering from a fainting fit.
 "Let me see him," said the young man, and then he smiled and shook his head, and said, "It can scarcely be the same, but it reminds me of something that happened to one of my tin soldiers when I was a little boy."
 "Yes, terribly lonely," cried the tin soldier; "still it is delightful not to be forgotten."
 Then the face of the dead one gleamed like the margin of the cloud in the moonlight.
 Gladly and of good courage, the form arose in splendor and in majesty, and vanished like the glancing of the northern light.
 And over the buried town fly the birds of heaven, the small and the great; they twitter and they sing as best they may, each bird with his beak.
 "We know the buried town," they say; "everything living in it is piep! piep! piep!"
 No death is there- life reigns yonder; we hear it on the notes that swell onward like the tones of the church organ, which seize us like sounds from the elf-hill, like the songs of Ossian, like the rushing swoop of the wandering spirits' wings.
 How sweetly they sing there; it is quite a pleasure to listen to them!
 "Tweet, tweet!" said the little bird, for one of his wings being broken, he found it difficult to shake himself; but he quite understood that the bath was meant kindly, and he said, "You are very kind-hearted, madam;" but he did not wish for a second bath.
 "I have never thought about my heart," replied the Portuguese duck, "but I know that I love all my fellow-creatures, except the cat, and nobody can expect me to love her, for she ate up two of my ducklings.
 "Amusement, too, is very beneficial.
 The two Chinese were quite enchanted with the appearance of the singing-bird.
 "He's charming," they said to each other, and began a conversation with him in whispers, using the most aristocratic Chinese dialect: "We are of the same race as yourself," they said.
 So she laid herself down in the sun and winked with one eye; she had a very comfortable place, and felt so comfortable that she fell asleep.
 The sun shone warm and bright, and he found out that it was a very good place.
 And then they repeated the former joke about "Portulak," and declared it was most amusing.
 When she had finished, she lay down again, and the little bird, who wished to be amiable, began to sing,-
 "I obtained the first prize," said the hare.
 "I should imagine no one can be swifter in soaring and flight than I am; and how far I have been! far, far away."
 I observed the well-grown ears of the hare; it is a pleasure to me to observe how long they are.
 It seemed as if I saw myself again in the days of my childhood; and so I voted for the hare."
 I call that conquering him; but I do not want the prize."
 It is glorious to bloom, to be fragrant, and to live; to live in story and in song.
 "Yes, they do shine," said Karen.
 "Sit fast, when you dance," said he, addressing the shoes, and slapping the soles with his hand.
 And he carved her a pair of wooden feet and some crutches, and taught her a psalm which is always sung by sinners; she kissed the hand that guided the axe, and went away over the heath.
 "It was mercy," said she.
 The bright warm sunshine streamed through the window into the pew where Karen sat, and her heart became so filled with it, so filled with peace and joy, that it broke.
 Her soul flew on the sunbeams to Heaven, and no one was there who asked after the Red Shoes.
 I see that you are useful, as well as ornamental, my little lady."
 "I am a fine gentleman certainly," said the shirt-collar, "I possess a boot-jack and a hair-brush."
 "Affectation!" said the shirt-collar.
 "Mistress widow," said the shirt-collar, "little mistress widow, I feel quite warm.
 "Oh!" exclaimed the shirt-collar, "what a first-rate dancer you would make; you can stretch out your leg so well.
 I never saw anything so charming; I am sure no human being could do the same."
 "IT is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes my whole body crackle.
 This is just the kind of wind to blow life into one.
 He had been brought into existence amidst the joyous shouts of boys, the jingling of sleigh-bells, and the slashing of whips.
 "Ah, I have cured him of staring, though; now he may hang up there, and shine, that I may see myself.
 "This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come into the garden with a young man; and they both stood still near the Snow Man, and contemplated the glittering scene.
 "Summer cannot show a more beautiful sight," she exclaimed, while her eyes sparkled.
 The girl laughed, and nodded at the Snow Man, and then tripped away over the snow with her friend.
 The night was long, but did not appear so to the Snow Man, who stood there enjoying his own reflections, and crackling with the cold.
 "Ah, now I understand why he had such a great longing for the stove," said the yard-dog.
 But the girls in the house sang,
 "While young, I can wander without a care, And build new houses everywhere; Fair and bright are my dreams of home, Always thought of wherever I roam.
 Hurrah for a workman's life of glee!
 It was really a pretty house, and in it were a happy pair.
 The flag of the corporation fluttered before it, and the journeymen and apprentices shouted "Hurrah."
 Twice in my life had I seen this same thing, and I knew that there would be an awful storm, with a spring tide, which would overwhelm the poor people who were now out on the ice, drinking, dancing, and making merry.
 I saw the people outside running and jumping about on the ice; I saw the beautiful flags waving in the wind; I heard the boys shouting, 'Hurrah!' and the lads and lasses singing, and everything full of merriment and joy.
 But the people had reached the sea-wall, where the sparks were flying round.
 I had saved them all; but I suppose I could not survive the cold and fright; so I came up here to the gates of paradise.
 "See," said the angel, pointing to the wonderful straw, "this is what the poor woman has brought.
 "It must look very grand," thought he, "for my wife to have a sentry guarding her nest.
 That last flap of the wings was so easy and graceful, that I shall give you permission to fly with me to-morrow to the marshes.
 You must strut about proudly- it will look well and make you respected."
 "Now let us have our revenge," they cried.
 "Yes, certainly," cried the mother stork.
 "I have thought upon the best way to be revenged.
 And what stories grandpapa could tell!
 "One never forgets a feast like that, however old one may grow," said grandfather.
 In some places the inscriptions were so malicious, that grandfather would not speak of them at all; but I saw that he was chuckling secretly, and there may have been some inaccuracy in his description, after all.
 The emperor ordered them to be carried into the great hall where the princess was just playing "Visitors are coming" with her ladies-in-waiting; when she saw the large cases with the presents therein, she clapped her hands for joy.
 "Oh, how nicely it is made," exclaimed the ladies.
 "It is more than nice," said the emperor, "it is charming."
 "Superbe, charmant," said the ladies of the court, for they all prattled French, one worse than the other.
 But the prince was not discouraged.
 When the princess with her ladies passed by and heard the tune, she stopped and looked quite pleased, for she also could play it- in fact, it was the only tune she could play, and she played it with one finger.
 "That is the tune I know," she exclaimed.
 That was a pleasure!
 The ladies danced and clapped their hands for joy.
 "But that is superbe," said the princess passing by.
 "I have never heard a more beautiful composition.
 "Oh, it is such a splendid and precious thing, that I cannot describe it," said the Mother-Toad.
 "It's much nicer here than down in the well!
 I should like to stay here my whole life long!" said the little Toad.
 "It's almost too much of a good thing here; it tickles one so."
 "It's a glorious thing to live! glorious to get out of the well, and to lie among the stinging-nettles, and to crawl along the dusty road.
 "It will be too damp for you here," said the Frogs; "but you are very welcome!
 But it doesn't matter; you are equally welcome."
 But I haven't the jewel; not that I cry about that- no, I must go higher up, into splendor and joy!
 Onward, therefore, straight onward!"
 "I writhed myself free," said the Caterpillar.
 "What a good thing it is when one has presence of mind!
 She was glad that in her ugliness she had frightened the fowls.
 Nothing is so beautiful as property.
 "Yes, higher up," said the little Toad; "higher-up!
 "But it's so wonderfully ugly," persisted the first.
 "What a good thing that I have not got it!
 "I must go to Egypt!" said she.
 "If the Stork or one of his young ones would only take me!
 Yes, I shall get to Egypt, for I feel so happy!
 All the longing and all the pleasure that I feel is much better than having a jewel in one's head."
 The Stork's beak pinched her, and the wind whistled; it was not exactly agreeable, but she was going upward- upward towards Egypt- and she knew it; and that was why her eyes gleamed, and a spark seemed to fly out of them.
 The master of the castle had watched through the night, in feverish excitement, and had been melting and cooling, distilling and mixing.
 He was quite giddy, I could have blown him down," said the Wind; "but I only fanned the glowing coals, and accompanied him through the door to the room where his daughter sat shivering.
 'Found! found!
 Gold! gold!' he shouted, again holding the glass aloft, that it might flash in the sunshine; but his hand trembled, and the alchymic glass fell from it, clattering to the ground, and brake in a thousand pieces.
 "Thank you, old witch," said the soldier.
 "Very well; I promise.
 However, he passed a very pleasant time; went to the theatre, drove in the king's garden, and gave a great deal of money to the poor, which was very good of him; he remembered what it had been in olden times to be without a shilling.
 Now he was rich, had fine clothes, and many friends, who all declared he was a fine fellow and a real gentleman, and all this gratified him exceedingly.
 "Hallo," said the soldier; "well this is a pleasant tinderbox, if it brings me all I wish for."
 During the night, the dog came again and carried the princess on his back, and ran with her to the soldier, who loved her very much, and wished that he had been a prince, so that he might have her for a wife.
 The shoemaker's boy liked the idea of getting the four shillings, so he ran very fast and fetched the tinder-box, and gave it to the soldier.
 The princess came out of the copper castle, and became queen, which was very pleasing to her.
 The first thing in the world they ever heard were the words, "Tin soldiers!" uttered by a little boy, who clapped his hands with delight when the lid of the box, in which they lay, was taken off.
 Still I must try and make her acquaintance."
 The nut-crackers played at leap-frog, and the pencil jumped about the table.
 So they made a boat out of a newspaper, and placed the tin soldier in it, and sent him sailing down the gutter, while the two boys ran by the side of it, and clapped their hands.
 It touched the tin soldier so much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept them back.
 "Look at me," said the top to the ball.
 No one could be happier than we should be."
 Every time I fly up in the air, he puts his head out of the nest, and says, 'Will you?' and I have said, 'Yes,' to myself silently, and that is as good as being half engaged; but I will promise never to forget you."
 "Now I am in a nice place," said he; "my gilding will soon be washed off here.
 "How large the world is," said the young ducks, when they found how much more room they now had than while they were inside the egg-shell.
 But just look at all the others, are they not the prettiest little ducklings you ever saw?
 After he had been on the moor two days, there came two wild geese, or rather goslings, for they had not been out of the egg long, and were very saucy.
 "Listen, friend," said one of them to the duckling, "you are so ugly, that we like you very well.
 He thrust his nose close to the duckling, showing his sharp teeth, and then, "splash, splash," he went into the water without touching him, "Oh," sighed the duckling, "how thankful I am for being so ugly; even a dog will not bite me."
 She laid good eggs, and her mistress loved her as if she had been her own child.
 "But it is so delightful to swim about on the water," said the duckling, "and so refreshing to feel it close over your head, while you dive down to the bottom."
 Could he ever forget those beautiful, happy birds; and when at last they were out of his sight, he dived under the water, and rose again almost beside himself with excitement.
 The moment they espied the stranger, they rushed to meet him with outstretched wings.
 He now felt glad at having suffered sorrow and trouble, because it enabled him to enjoy so much better all the pleasure and happiness around him; for the great swans swam round the new-comer, and stroked his neck with their beaks, as a welcome.
 "See," cried the youngest, "there is a new one;" and the rest were delighted, and ran to their father and mother, dancing and clapping their hands, and shouting joyously, "There is another swan come; a new one has arrived."
 Then they threw more bread and cake into the water, and said, "The new one is the most beautiful of all; he is so young and pretty."
 Then he felt quite ashamed, and hid his head under his wing; for he did not know what to do, he was so happy, and yet not at all proud.
 Then he rustled his feathers, curved his slender neck, and cried joyfully, from the depths of his heart, "I never dreamed of such happiness as this, while I was an ugly duckling."
 The prince was of opinion that all this was right, and that it was only the natural course which things ought to take.
 The prince often looked with delight upon his gold and his magnificent edifices, and thought, like the crowd: "What a mighty prince!
 No power on earth must equal mine, far less exceed it."
