 She plucks the withered leaf from the balsam, and looks at the grass-covered rampart, on which many children are playing.
 What is the old maid thinking of?
 What red cheeks and what angels' eyes! but they have no shoes nor stockings.
 Nor do they know anything of the Danish King who here, in the face of the coming foe, took an oath before all his trembling courtiers that he would hold out with the citizens of his capital, and die here in his nest; they know nothing of the men who have fought here, or of the women who from here have drenched with boiling water the enemy, clad in white, and 'biding in the snow to surprise the city.
 "No! the poor little ones are playing with light, childish spirits.
 Play on, play on, thou little maiden!
 The priestly hands have been laid on the candidates for confirmation; hand in hand they walk on the green rampart.
 Thou hast a white frock on; it has cost thy mother much labor, and yet it is only cut down for thee out of an old larger dress!
 People will only see how large, how very large it is.
 Alas!
 It is not so with the human heart!
 Dark mists, more in number than those that cover the northern skies, cloud the human heart.
 Poor child! thy friend's bridal chamber is a black coffin, and thou becomest an old maid.
 From the almshouse window, behind the balsams, thou shalt look on the merry children at play, and shalt see thine own history renewed."
 And that is the life drama that passes before the old maid while she looks out upon the rampart, the green, sunny rampart, where the children, with their red cheeks and bare shoeless feet, are rejoicing merrily, like the other free little birds.
 "WHENEVER a good child dies, an angel of God comes down from heaven, takes the dead child in his arms, spreads out his great white wings, and flies with him over all the places which the child had loved during his life.
 Close by grew a slender, beautiful, rose-bush, but some wicked hand had broken the stem, and the half-opened rosebuds hung faded and withered on the trailing branches.
 "Poor rose-bush!" said the child, "let us take it with us to heaven, that it may bloom above in God's garden."
 Amidst all this confusion, the angel pointed to the pieces of a broken flower-pot, and to a lump of earth which had fallen out of it.
 The earth had been kept from falling to pieces by the roots of a withered field-flower, which had been thrown amongst the rubbish.
 "Down in that narrow lane, in a low cellar, lived a poor sick boy; he had been afflicted from his childhood, and even in his best days he could just manage to walk up and down the room on crutches once or twice, but no more.
 In this spot the poor sick boy would sit warming himself in the sunshine, and watching the red blood through his delicate fingers as he held them before his face.
 He has been one year with God.
 During that time the flower has stood in the window, withered and forgotten, till at length cast out among the sweepings into the street, on the day of the lodgers' removal.
 Then he would cry, but what nobody knows nobody cares for; so he would cry till he was tired, and then fall asleep; and while we are asleep we can feel neither hunger nor thirst.
 If he went near the farmyard belonging to the count, he was pushed and knocked about, for the men and the maids said he was so horrible ugly; but he was used to all this, for nobody loved him.
 Anne Lisbeth went forth from the castle into the public road, feeling mournful and sad; he whom she had nursed day and night, and even now carried about in her dreams, had been cold and strange, and had not a word or thought respecting her.
 "Ah," said she, "what bird of ill omen art thou?"
 She felt very low-spirited, because her count-child had shown no inclination to speak to her who loved him so well, and who had travelled so far to see him.
 The journey had cost money too, and she had derived no great pleasure from it.
 And the apple-branch looked with a sort of pity upon them, especially on a certain little flower that is found in fields and in ditches.
 The same evening, upon going to bed, the pastor noticed his wife sitting there quiet and pensive.
 She was buried; two large tears rolled over the cheeks of the earnest man, and in the parsonage it was empty and still, for its sun had set for ever.
 She fixed her eyes upon him with such a kind and sad expression, just as if she wished to say something to him.
 I myself helped to rescue cattle and things, nothing alive burnt, except a flight of pigeons, which flew into the fire, and the yard dog, of which I had not thought; one could hear him howl out of the fire, and this howling I still hear when I wish to sleep; and when I have fallen asleep, the great rough dog comes and places himself upon me, and howls, presses, and tortures me.
 And tears gushed from his eyes like a stream of mercy and love, the cooling waters of which extinguished the eternal fire of hell.
 "She was beautiful," said her mother; "she was quite different from the beauties they call 'antiques,' for they are so damaged.
 Alfred wept, and mamma wept, and they both wore mourning.
 The black dress suited mamma very well, and she wore mourning the longest.
 She had also to experience another grief in seeing Alfred marry again, marry Sophy, who was nothing at all to look at.
 My career has been very interesting, but what's the use of that if nobody knows anything about it?
 If I had received golden shoes I should have been an ornament to the stable; now I am lost to the stable and to the world.
 It is all over with me."
 Grandmother says that she has heard her own grandmother tell of him; he is said to lead a solitary life, and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church Bell.
 But the Bell got neither rest nor sleep.
 I may sing of everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars.
 Yonder it is cold and wet.
 Nobody knows of it!
 Nobody hears of it!
 Not even now, for the bell is ringing and singing its loud Ding-dong, ding-dong!'
 The throng in front of the church knew where they could hit the King, and one of them flung a stone through a pane of glass, and the King lay there dead!
 The cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through the air, and I joined in it also; for I sang 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
 "But it was too much for me to hear and to know; I was not able any longer to ring it out.
 I became so tired, so heavy, that the beam broke, and I flew out into the gleaming Au, where the water is deepest, and where the Au-mann lives, solitary and alone; and year by year I tell him what I have heard and what I know.
 But the schoolmaster says that there was not any bell that rung down there, for that it could not do so; and that no Au-mann dwelt yonder, for there was no Au-mann at all!
 But the poor boy with the wooden shoes was quite ashamed; he pulled at the short sleeves of his jacket, and said that he was afraid he could not walk so fast; besides, he was of opinion that the bell ought to be sought at the right, for there was all that was grand and magnificent.
 Then the sun set, the clouds were as red as fire; it became quiet in the wood; he sank down on his knees, sang an evening hymn and said: "I shall never find what I am looking for!
 Then one of them mentioned Thyland in Denmark, and spoke of her sorrows, of her woes, which were soon to cease, for so Divine Providence had willed it.
 I have no reason to sing, nor could I sing now if I were ever so happy; but when I was a whole bottle, and they rubbed me with a cork, didn't I sing then?
 There had been a great deal of talk on this subject while the basket was being packed, and during this conversation the eyes and the mouth of the furrier's daughter did not wear a very joyful expression.
 At the last moment, when the ship was sinking, the young mate wrote on a piece of paper, "We are going down: God's will be done."
 It has been raised from only a little sprig of myrtle that you gave me on the day after my betrothal, and from which I was to make my own bridal bouquet when a year had passed: but that day never came; the eyes were closed which were to have been my light and joy through life.
 There were tears in the eyes of the old maid, as she spoke of the beloved of her youth, and of their betrothal in the wood.
 When the dreadful storm had passed, the flowers and the corn raised their drooping heads in the pure still air, refreshed by the rain, but the buckwheat lay like a weed in the field, burnt to blackness by the lightning.
 The branches of the old willow-tree rustled in the wind, and large water-drops fell from his green leaves as if the old willow were weeping.
 Then the willow told them of the haughty pride of the buckwheat, and of the punishment which followed in consequence.
 He glanced, with a very critical eye, at all the flower-beds, and found that the flowers were seated quietly and demurely on their stalks, just as maidens should sit before they are engaged; but there was a great number of them, and it appeared as if his search would become very wearisome.
 The violet, a little too sentimental.
 "But it is not enough merely to exist," said he, "I need freedom, sunshine, and a little flower for a companion."
 "It is not very pleasant, certainly; I should imagine it is something like being married; for here I am stuck fast."
 And with this thought he consoled himself a little.
 "That seems very poor consolation," said one of the plants in the room, that grew in a pot.
 Well, perhaps, if in the beginning of a book these were written and printed, many, when they read it, would lay the book down and say, "It seems to me a very miserable title, I don't like things of this sort."
 Here, behind the white iron railings, once a rose-tree grew; it is gone now, but a little bit of evergreen, from a neighboring grave, stretches out its green tendrils, and makes some appearance; there rests a very unhappy man, and yet while he lived he might be said to occupy a very good position.
 Then he would vex and fret himself because they did not laugh at the right time, or because they laughed in the wrong places; and so he fretted and worried himself till at last the unhappy man fretted himself into the grave.
 The sisters mourned as young hearts can mourn, and were especially grieved at the sight of their parents' sorrow.
 The father's heart was bowed down, but the mother sunk completely under the deep grief.
 She thought God could not take her darling little one from her; and when it did happen notwithstanding her hopes and her belief, and there could be no more doubt on the subject, she said in her feverish agony, "God does not know it.
 Thus in her great grief she fell away from her faith in God, and dark thoughts arose in her mind respecting death and a future state.
 But these doubts were no support to her, nothing on which she could rest, and she sunk into the fathomless depths of despair.
 In her darkest hours she ceased to weep, and thought not of the young daughters who were still left to her.
 The tears of her husband fell on her forehead, but she took no notice of him; her thoughts were with her dead child; her whole existence seemed wrapped up in the remembrances of the little one and of every innocent word it had uttered.
 When she awoke, and wanted to see her child, the husband, with tears, said, "We have closed the coffin; it was necessary to do so."
 "When God is so hard to me, how can I expect men to be better?" she said with groans and tears.
 She gave herself up to her grief, and it tossed her to and fro, as the sea tosses a ship without compass or rudder.
 With tearful eyes and mournful glances, the sorrowing daughters and the afflicted husband looked upon her who would not hear their words of comfort; and, indeed, what comforting words could they speak, when they were themselves so full of grief?
 As she had sat by his little cot, so now she sat by his grave; and here she could weep freely, and her tears fell upon it.
 "Down to my child," she repeated; and tones of despair and entreaty sounded in the words.
 "Oh, stay, stay!" implored the mother; "only one moment more; only once more, that I may look upon thee, and kiss thee, and press thee to my heart."
 No; their sighs and lamentations still sounded from above; and she had nearly forgotten them, for the sake of him who was dead.
 If he would only come in here!
 The wind had blown the planks, but the storm was over.
 The peonies were sulky; it was well that they could not speak, otherwise they would have given the daisy a good lecture.
 The little flower could very well see that they were ill at ease, and pitied them sincerely.
 Indeed the poor bird had good reason to be sad, for it had been caught and put into a cage close by the open window.
 The poor lark was most unhappy as a prisoner in a cage.
 The poor bird was lamenting its lost liberty, and beating its wings against the wires; and the little daisy could not speak or utter a consoling word, much as it would have liked to do so.
 "I have no water," said the captive lark, "they have all gone out, and forgotten to give me anything to drink.
 My throat is dry and burning.
 I feel as if I had fire and ice within me, and the air is so oppressive.
 I must die, and part with the warm sunshine, the fresh green meadows, and all the beauty that God has created."
 Then it noticed the little daisy, and nodded to it, and kissed it with its beak and said: "You must also fade in here, poor little flower.
 Alas! you only remind me of what I have lost."
 The evening came, and nobody appeared to bring the poor bird a drop of water; it opened its beautiful wings, and fluttered about in its anguish; a faint and mournful "Tweet, tweet," was all it could utter, then it bent its little head towards the flower, and its heart broke for want and longing.
 The flower could not, as on the previous evening, fold up its petals and sleep; it dropped sorrowfully.
 The boys only came the next morning; when they saw the dead bird, they began to cry bitterly, dug a nice grave for it, and adorned it with flowers.
 While it was alive and sang they forgot it, and let it suffer want in the cage; now, they cried over it and covered it with flowers.
 I am so fine that even my mother cannot find me.
 Had I still my old eye, which was broken off, I believe I should weep; but no, I would not do that, it is not genteel to cry."
 But lo! the servant of one of the robbers secretly approached her; they must not see it, otherwise they would have killed him.
 Therein lives a poor paralysed girl; the window of her little room looks northward, the sun does not enter here.
 The girl can only see a small piece of field which is surrounded by a high fence.
 All this a single servant has done, and yet she has time to spare as if she wished to go to church; she wears a bow on her cap, a black bow, that signifies mourning.
 But she has no one to mourn, neither father nor mother, neither relations nor sweetheart.
 She is a poor girl.
 One day he came to her and said: "We both have nothing!
 The rich widow over the way in the basement has made advances to me; she will make me rich, but you are in my heart; what do you advise me to do?"
 "I advise you to do what you think will turn out to your happiness," said the girl.
 "Be kind and good to her, but remember this; from the hour we part we shall never see each other again."
 "Rich and prospering in every respect," he said; "the woman is brave and good, but you are in my heart.
 I have fought the battle, it will soon be ended; we shall not see each other again now until we meet before God!"
 A week has passed; this morning his death was in the newspaper, that is the reason of the girl's mourning!
 Her old sweetheart is dead and has left a wife and three step-children, as the paper says; it sounds as if there is a crack, but the metal is pure.
 The black bow signifies mourning, the girl's face points to the same in a still higher degree; it is preserved in the heart and will never be forgotten.
 Delaying is not forgetting!
 And he thought it over and over, but it would not do, and so he had recourse to magic.
 "I must give them color, that they may be seen more plainly," said he; and he poured something like a little drop of red wine into the drop of water, but it was witches' blood from the lobes of the ear, the finest kind, at ninepence a drop.
 It was terrible!
 There is one who has a little bruise.
 It hurts him, but it shall hurt him still more."
 And there was one sitting as still as any little maiden, and wishing only for peace and quietness.
 "Who is the dead man?" we asked.
 "They say that he was once an energetic young man, that he studied the dead languages, and sang and even composed many songs; then something had happened to him, and in consequence of this he gave himself up to drink, body and mind.
 When at last he had ruined his health, they brought him into the country, where someone paid for his board and residence.
 But when we succeeded in bringing him home, and prevailed upon him to open the book with the dried-up plants in it, he would sometimes sit for a whole day looking at this or that plant, while frequently the tears rolled over his cheeks.
 God knows what was in his mind; but he requested us to put the book into his coffin, and now he lies there.
 In a little while the lid will be placed upon the coffin, and he will have sweet rest in the grave!"
 What a strange feeling it is- surely we all know it- to look through old letters of our young days; a different life rises up out of the past, as it were, with all its hopes and sorrows.
 Where does he dwell now?
 The leaf is kept, but the friendship does no longer exist.
 Here is a water-lily that he had plucked himself, and watered with salt tears- a lily of sweet water.
 What might he have thought when he plucked and kept it?
 The lilac bends its fresh fragrant flowers over the dead man's head; the swallow passes again- "twit, twit;" now the men come with hammer and nails, the lid is placed over the dead man, while his head rests on the dumb book- so long cherished, now closed for ever!
 "No one cares for me, nor troubles himself about me; and I have enough to do to sew my grave clothes."
 "But we must part," said the young man; "your brother does not like our engagement, and therefore he sends me so far away on business, over mountains and seas.
 Farewell, my sweet bride; for so you are to me."
 And then they kissed each other, and the girl wept, and gave him a rose; but before she did so, she pressed a kiss upon it so fervently that the flower opened.
 Oh, what bitter tears she shed! and she could not open her heart to any one for relief.
 Oh, how she wept and prayed that she also might die!
 "I will keep this," said she; and as soon as she had covered the body again with the earth and leaves, she took the head and a little sprig of jasmine that bloomed in the wood, near the spot where he was buried, and carried them home with her.
 "Alas! how soon all that is good and beautiful passes away," sighed the elf.
 Every morning he flew to the window of the poor girl, and always found her weeping by the flower pot.
 The bitter tears fell upon the jasmine twig, and each day, as she became paler and paler, the sprig appeared to grow greener and fresher.
 And the jasmine opened its large white bells, and spread forth its sweet fragrance; it had no other way of showing its grief for the dead.
 "It is therefore my good appointment for which I am not fit.
 FAR down in the forest, where the warm sun and the fresh air made a sweet resting-place, grew a pretty little fir-tree; and yet it was not happy, it wished so much to be tall like its companions- the pines and firs which grew around it.
 Sometimes the children would bring a large basket of raspberries or strawberries, wreathed on a straw, and seat themselves near the fir-tree, and say, "Is it not a pretty little tree?" which made it feel more unhappy than before.
 Still, as it grew, it complained, "Oh! how I wish I were as tall as the other trees, then I would spread out my branches on every side, and my top would over-look the wide world.
 The tree was so discontented, that it took no pleasure in the warm sunshine, the birds, or the rosy clouds that floated over it morning and evening.
 Sometimes, in winter, when the snow lay white and glittering on the ground, a hare would come springing along, and jump right over the little tree; and then how mortified it would feel!
 Yet it remained unsatisfied, and would exclaim, "Oh, if I could but keep on growing tall and old!
 There is nothing else worth caring for in the world!"
 "Oh, how I wish I were tall enough to go on the sea," said the fir-tree.
 I long for it almost with pain.
 Oh! when will Christmas be here?
 I am weary with longing.
 As the axe cut through the stem, and divided the pith, the tree fell with a groan to the earth, conscious of pain and faintness, and forgetting all its anticipations of happiness, in sorrow at leaving its home in the forest.
 It knew that it should never again see its dear old companions, the trees, nor the little bushes and many-colored flowers that had grown by its side; perhaps not even the birds.
 Still I wish this place were not so dark, as well as lonely, with not even a little hare to look at.
 Oh! it is terrible lonely here."
 "Past! past!" said the old tree; "Oh, had I but enjoyed myself while I could have done so! but now it is too late."
 The pieces were placed in a fire under the copper, and they quickly blazed up brightly, while the tree sighed so deeply that each sigh was like a pistol-shot.
 "Ah, yes, no doubt," said the fern, "but you do not know the world yet as well as I do, for my sticks are knotty;" and then it sung quite mournfully-
 "Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lurre: The song is ended."
 But the wood-cutter came, like a great revolution, and our family fell under the axe.
 And when my mother sang thus, her eyes would become moist; and on the long eyelashes were tears, but she concealed them and watched the black bread baking in the ashes.
 I saw my poor dead father, and cried till I fell asleep.
 When we arose, I saw my mother standing by the church door, weeping.
 Then his hand trembled in mine, and he became pale as a corpse.
 "And she shall be thine," he exclaimed; "thine!
 I also love her, but tomorrow I depart.
 She looked at Aphtanides with a sweet but mournful expression on her face.
 "To-morrow you are going to leave us," she said.
 "I am very sorry."
 "Sorry!" he exclaimed, and his voice was troubled with a grief as deep as my own.
 He did not himself know why he wept, yet a kind of pleasant feeling mingled with his tears.
 The mother wept; the father in fancy saw him "famous;" the town musician was of opinion that he ought not to go to war, but should stay at home and learn music.
 "My golden treasure!" she cried out; and she awoke.
 She folded her hands, and hid her face in the cotton curtains of the bed, and wept.
 Perhaps he's in the water in the marsh!
 Nobody knows his grave; no holy words have been read over it!"
 And the Lord's Prayer went inaudibly over her lips; she bowed her head, and was so weary that she went to sleep.
 "Nothing, nothing; only leave me to myself," he answered but the tears were running down his cheeks.
 "My sweet child, my golden treasure!" cried the mother, and she wept; but the Fire-drum sang, not out loud, but inwardly.
 If his father had only lived to see it!"
 The elder one, who was named Care, looked rather gloomy; she always goes about to perform her own business in person; for then she knows it is properly done.
 "This is the most terrible moment of my life."
 The riches and the honor came for me; Yet still my greatest wealth was poverty: Ah, help and pity me!
 Thou knowest: ah, pity me!
 The lieutenant felt this very keenly, and therefore leaned his head against the window-frame, and sighed deeply.
 "The poor watchman in the street," said he, "is far happier than I am.
 Oh, how much happier I should be could I change my being and position with him, and pass through life with his humble expectations and hopes!
 Yes, he is indeed happier than I am."
 Yes, this is my fate," and he sighed deeply.
 "Ah!" he sighed mournfully, as he gazed at the birds singing merrily, or hopping from branch to branch, "they are much better off than I. Flying is a glorious power.
 It is a miserable story indeed, especially now I have fallen into the hands of boys.
 "Ah," he sighed, "if I were only on the other side of the Alps now, it would be summer, and I should be able to get money on my letter of credit.
 The anxiety I feel on this matter prevents me from enjoying myself in Switzerland.
 Oh, I wish I was on the other side of the Alps."
 It was a glorious spectacle; but the stomachs of the travellers were empty, their bodies exhausted with fatigue, and all the longings of their heart turned towards a resting-place for the night; but where to find one they knew not.
 All the eyes were too eagerly seeking for this resting-place, to notice the beauties of nature.
 "I work hard and suffer pain with my poor hands," said she, "but I do it willingly, that I may be able to bring you up honestly and truthfully, my dear boy."
 "Oh, he was such a kind, good-hearted man, there are not many like him," and the tears rolled down her cheeks as she spoke.
 Then she cried, "Oh, dear me; I feel quite ill: everything is going round me, I cannot bear it.
 The limbs of the laundress shook under her, and she said, "I have stood too long in the cold water, and I have had nothing to eat the whole day since the morning.
 O kind Heaven, help me to get home; I am in a burning fever.
 Oh, my poor child," and she burst into tears.
 And he, poor boy, wept also, as he sat alone by the river, near to and watching the damp linen.
 Every word she said pierced my heart like a knife; but I knew she was right, and the thought pressed heavily upon me.
 I kissed her hand, and wept bitter tears, and I wept still more when I went to my room, and threw myself on the bed.
 I passed through a dreadful night; God knows what I suffered, and how I struggled.
 I saw him, looking pale as death, and deeply troubled, standing at her grave; for she was his mother.
 Sometime after, when his father died, he was in foreign lands, and did not come home.
 We were backward in our payments, we borrowed more money, and all that we had was lost and sold, and then my husband died.
 Since then I have worked, toiled, and striven for the sake of the child.
 "Oh, my poor mother!" he cried, while the tears rolled down his cheeks.
 "Is it true what they say, that she was good for nothing?"
 Grandmother cannot smile like that now.
 She had not a button- that she knew right well, and therefore she remained standing sorrowfully outside, till all the others had seen the grave and had gone away; then she sat down, held her little brown hands before her eyes, and burst into tears; this girl alone had not seen Puggie's grave.
 It was a grief as great to her as any grown person can experience.
 Not long after, the king of the country suffered from the deepest melancholy.
 They read deep and learned books to him, and then the lightest and most trifling that could be found, but all to no purpose.
 The poor swineherd took these words to heart, for they were addressed to him; he knew not that there were others who were equally ignorant.
 Then the king, in his melancholy, wandered out to the spot in the wood.
 For the plant had disappeared, and the king remained as melancholy and sad as ever, but the sentry said he had always been so.
 The old grandfather wiped his eyes, for he had known King Frederick, with his silvery locks and his honest blue eyes, and had lived for him, and he folded his hands and remained for some time silent.
 I still remember his face, but from whence he came, or whither he went, I know not; no one knows.
 They ran on a little farther, and then Christina fell down, and began to cry.
 At last they both lost themselves in the thicket; Christina began to cry, and then Ib cried too; and, after weeping and lamenting for some time, they stretched themselves down on the dry leaves and fell asleep.
 At first Ib said not a word, but he became as white as the wall, and shook his head gently, and then he spoke,- "Christina must not refuse this good fortune."
 Ib sat down to write, but he could not get on at all.
 Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
 Poor Christina!
 At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
 The air in the room was heavy and stifling, no light was burning, and from one corner came sounds of moaning and sighing.
 The cold hand of death had already touched the heart of Christina.
 Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
 It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
 "Oh, what will become of her?"
 He never knew; for not another word escaped her lips.
 And then he sang his own melancholy song, and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true, though it's in print.
 "Poor little Ephemera!" said the oak; "what a terribly short life!"
 Crows and rooks came by turns and sat on them, and talked of the hard times which were beginning, and how difficult it was in winter to obtain food.
 These were wonderful and happy moments for the old tree, full of peace and joy; and yet, amidst all this happiness, the tree felt a yearning, longing desire that all the other trees, bushes, herbs, and flowers beneath him, might be able also to rise higher, as he had done, and to see all this splendor, and experience the same happiness.
 The grand, majestic oak could not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while all the rest, both great and small, were not with him.
 And this feeling of yearning trembled through every branch, through every leaf, as warmly and fervently as if they had been the fibres of a human heart.
 Who can replace it?
 Alas! no one."
 Tears of sorrow rolled down their cheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word was spoken.
 The silence which reigned here expressed a world of grief.
 With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room.
 Strange men came in and placed the lid of the coffin over the dead, and drove the nails firmly in; while the blows of the hammer resounded through the house, and echoed in the hearts that were bleeding.
 A hot tear rolled into her lap, and formed itself into a pearl, glowing with all the colors of the rainbow.
 "Oh, now I have no horse at all, said Little Claus, weeping.
 "Then I shall be obliged to lie out here," said Little Claus to himself, as the farmer's wife shut the door in his face.
 "Oh, dear," sighed Little Claus from the top of the shed, as he saw all the good things disappear.
 Now Little Claus did not relish the porridge at all, so he trod with his foot on the sack under the table, and the dry skin squeaked quite loud.
 She had been cross, unkind, and really spiteful to him; but he was very sorry, and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if he could bring her to life again.
 "And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already, cannot get there."
 "I ought to tell you a story, but the worst of it is, I do not know any more."
 "'But first we went to school to learn something,' she said, 'and then we were confirmed; we both wept on that day, but in the afternoon we went out hand in hand, and ascended the high round tower and looked out into the wide world right over Copenhagen and the sea; then we walked to Fredericksburg, where the king and the queen were sailing about in their magnificent boat on the canals.'
 "'And I often cried about you, for I was afraid lest you were drowned and lying at the bottom of the sea.
 "My poor flowers are quite dead," said little Ida, "they were so pretty yesterday evening, and now all the leaves are hanging down quite withered.
 To-morrow morning we shall be quite dead; and you must tell little Ida to bury us in the garden, near to the grave of the canary; then, in the summer we shall wake up and be more beautiful than ever."
 "No, you must not die," said Sophy, as she kissed the flowers.
 In the cold and the darkness, a poor little girl, with bare head and naked feet, roamed through the streets.
 No one had bought anything of her the whole day, nor had any one given here even a penny.
 Shivering with cold and hunger, she crept along; poor little child, she looked the picture of misery.
 In a corner, between two houses, one of which projected beyond the other, she sank down and huddled herself together.
 Then the match went out, and there remained nothing but the thick, damp, cold wall before her.
 "Some one is dying," thought the little girl, for her old grandmother, the only one who had ever loved her, and who was now dead, had told her that when a star falls, a soul was going up to God.
 "Grandmother," cried the little one, "O take me with you; I know you will go away when the match burns out; you will vanish like the warm stove, the roast goose, and the large, glorious Christmas-tree."
 The tiny little creature woke very early in the morning, and began to cry bitterly when she found where she was, for she could see nothing but water on every side of the large green leaf, and no way of reaching the land.
 "Croak, croak, croak," was all her son could say for himself; so the toad took up the elegant little bed, and swam away with it, leaving Tiny all alone on the green leaf, where she sat and wept.
 She could not bear to think of living with the old toad, and having her ugly son for a husband.
 As soon as they caught sight of her, they saw she was very pretty, and it made them very sorry to think that she must go and live with the ugly toads.
 "No, it must never be!" so they assembled together in the water, round the green stalk which held the leaf on which the little maiden stood, and gnawed it away at the root with their teeth.
 But especially was she sorry for the beautiful white butterfly which she had fastened to the leaf, for if he could not free himself he would die of hunger.
 Then he flew down with her from the tree, and placed her on a daisy, and she wept at the thought that she was so ugly that even the cockchafers would have nothing to say to her.
 During the whole summer poor little Tiny lived quite alone in the wide forest.
 She felt dreadfully cold, for her clothes were torn, and she was herself so frail and delicate, that poor little Tiny was nearly frozen to death.
 Then she wrapped herself up in a dry leaf, but it cracked in the middle and could not keep her warm, and she shivered with cold.
 Oh! how she shivered with the cold.
 Poor little Tiny stood before the door just like a little beggar-girl, and begged for a small piece of barley-corn, for she had been without a morsel to eat for two days.
 "You poor little creature," said the field-mouse, who was really a good old field-mouse, "come into my warm room and dine with me."
 In the middle of the floor lay a dead swallow, his beautiful wings pulled close to his sides, his feet and his head drawn up under his feathers; the poor bird had evidently died of the cold.
 It made little Tiny very sad to see it, she did so love the little birds; all the summer they had sung and twittered for her so beautifully.
 "Farewell, you pretty little bird," said she, "farewell; thank you for your delightful singing during the summer, when all the trees were green, and the warm sun shone upon us.
 Then she brought the swallow some water in a flower-leaf, and after he had drank, he told her that he had wounded one of his wings in a thorn-bush, and could not fly as fast as the others, who were soon far away on their journey to warm countries.
 But Tiny knew it would make the field-mouse very grieved if she left her in that manner, so she said, "No, I cannot."
 Tiny looked after him, and the tears rose in her eyes.
 "Tweet, tweet," sang the bird, as he flew out into the green woods, and Tiny felt very sad.
 But Tiny was not at all pleased; for she did not like the tiresome mole.
 Every morning when the sun rose, and every evening when it went down, she would creep out at the door, and as the wind blew aside the ears of corn, so that she could see the blue sky, she thought how beautiful and bright it seemed out there, and wished so much to see her dear swallow again.
 Then Tiny wept, and said she would not marry the disagreeable mole.
 The poor child was very unhappy at the thought of saying farewell to the beautiful sun, and as the field-mouse had given her permission to stand at the door, she went to look at it once more.
 "Farewell bright sun," she cried, stretching out her arm towards it; and then she walked a short distance from the house; for the corn had been cut, and only the dry stubble remained in the fields.
 "Farewell, farewell," she repeated, twining her arm round a little red flower that grew just by her side.
 And as she told him she wept.
 Then there was much rejoicing, and the little swallow who sat above them, in his nest, was asked to sing a wedding song, which he did as well as he could; but in his heart he felt sad for he was very fond of Tiny, and would have liked never to part from her again.
 "Farewell, farewell," said the swallow, with a heavy heart as he left the warm countries to fly back into Denmark.
 But care and sorrow dwelt within these halls; the queen lay upon a sick bed, and the doctors declared that she must die.
 "No one has yet named the flower," said the wise man.
 "No one has pointed out the spot where it blooms in all its splendor.
 She wept over it, kissed it, and prayed for it as only a mother can pray in that hour of her anguish."
 Tears stood in his eyes, and glistened on his cheeks; he carried a great book and the binding was of velvet, with silver clasps.
 "Mother," cried the little boy; "only hear what I have read."
 Unfortunately I have not long to live- the shortest time, in fact, of my whole family- only twenty-eight days.
 It was NOVEMBER, who coughed violently as he got out.
 In the garden of the grand duke's palace, under the roof of one of the wings, where a thousand roses bloom in winter, a little ragged boy had been sitting the whole day long; a boy, who might serve as a type of Italy, lovely and smiling, and yet still suffering.
 He was hungry and thirsty, yet no one gave him anything; and when it became dark, and they were about to close the gardens, the porter turned him out.
 Yes; as you see, I can even venture under the rays of the lamp, in front of the picture of the Madonna, but I may not enter the church; still from without, and while you are upon my back, I may look in through the open door.
 Once more he clasped the neck of his metal horse, kissed its nose, and nodded farewell to it.
 The boy began to cry, and then she struck him with her foot till he cried out louder.
 Here everything was bright, and the boy knelt down by the first tomb on his right, the grave of Michael Angelo, and sobbed as if his heart would break.
 Hunger and thirst overpowered the child, and he became quite faint and ill.
 Giuseppe went out the next morning, and the poor child was not glad to see him go, for he knew that the old man was gone to his mother, and that, perhaps, he would have to go back.
 He wept at the thought, and then he played with the little, lively dog, and kissed it, while the old woman looked kindly at him to encourage him.
 This made the woman angry, and she scolded him and threatened him, which made him very unhappy, and he went and sat in his own room full of sad thoughts.
 But there was nothing to be seen; whatever he had heard had passed already.
 The poor little thing trembled so with cold, that the boy ran homeward as fast as he could.
 "Oh, I have not stolen it; do give it to me back again," cried the boy, despairingly.
 Giuseppe went off at once, while his wife lamented, and the boy wept.
 Then she wept, and kissed her little half-strangled Bellissima.
 A large gilt frame surrounded it, and on one corner of the frame a laurel wreath had been hung; but a black band, twined unseen among the green leaves, and a streamer of crape, hung down from it; for within the last few days the young artist had- died.
 "It's only a sparrow," they said; they did not, however, let her go, but took her home with them, and every time she cried they hit her on the beak.
 And then they pecked at the bird with their little beaks so that it was impossible for her to get into the nest; she was so exhausted that she couldn't even say "Peep!" much less "I am your own mother!"
 "Poor creature!" said all the roses; "only be still, and we will hide you.
 The sparrows ate lustily; they listened attentively, and even stood in the ranks with the others, but it did not suit them at all.
 "Tsing-pe!" cried the lord-in-waiting, and again he ran up and down stairs, through all the halls and corridors; and half the court ran with him, for they did not like the idea of being trampled upon.
 There was certainly not much pleasure in this kind of flying.
 But they did not get on well, for the real nightingale sang in its own natural way, but the artificial bird sang only waltzes.
 Now there was great sorrow, as the bird could only be allowed to play once a year; and even that was dangerous for the works inside it.
 Five years passed, and then a real grief came upon the land.
 The Chinese really were fond of their emperor, and he now lay so ill that he was not expected to live.
 Cold and pale lay the emperor in his royal bed; the whole court thought he was dead, and every one ran away to pay homage to his successor.
 "But we have no theatre," cried little Anna, "and we have no one to act for us; my old doll cannot, for she is a fright, and my new one cannot, for she must not rumple her new clothes."
 If I from him must part, I'm sure 'twill break my heart!' 'Bah!'
 "'Though I'm all ear, Very stupid I appear: Where's my humor?
 Gone, I fear, And I feel my hollow stick's not here, Ah! never, my dear, Did I feel so queer.
 Many of them were very aged; lonely old boys, with strange thoughts and eccentric habits.
 And when at last he crept into bed, he would be so cold that his teeth chattered in his head.
 But this was scarcely an agreeable entertainment; for thoughts of olden memories raise the curtains from the past, and sometimes pierce the heart with painful recollections till the agony brings tears to the waking eyes.
 And so it was with Anthony; often the scalding tears, like pearly drops, would fall from his eyes to the coverlet and roll on the floor with a sound as if one of his heartstrings had broken.
 If he dried his eyes with his nightcap, then the tear and the picture would be crushed; but the source of the tears remained and welled up again in his heart.
 The pictures did not follow one another in order, as the circumstances they represented had occurred; very often the most painful would come together, and when those came which were most full of joy, they had always the deepest shadow thrown upon them.
 How vividly were represented to him, in a glittering tear that rolled down his cheek, two children at play- a boy and a girl.
 And all this about the two children was mirrored to old Anthony in a single tear, which could soon be wiped away and disappear, but might come again from its source in the heart of the old man.
 And Molly and Anthony both wept, but these tears all flowed together into one tear which had the rosy shimmer of joy.
 One, two, three years went by, and during the whole time he received only two letters.
 Anthony also said, "Farewell."
 Not a tear came into his eye; he felt he was no longer Molly's friend.
 "What matters it?" said he; "I am ruined also.
 Dark days, heavy trials, with poverty at the door, came rolling into the house upon them like the waves of the sea.
 Sorrow and suffering deprived Anthony's father of his strength, so that he had something else to think of besides nursing his love-sorrows and his anger against Molly.
 How much came back to his remembrance as he looked through the tears once more on his native town!
 It certainly has not yet withered; but in the course of years the number of blossoms from time to time will grow less, and at last it was cease altogether to bear fruit; and then its history will be over."
 "Marry! ha, ha!" and he laughed bitterly to himself at the thought.
 There lay the old bachelor, forsaken by all, and unable to help himself.
 It was the hour of the mother's sorrow, when there pealed forth from the church tower the sound of festive bells.
 He and his sister, two years older than himself, had often wept scalding tears over the story of Him who suffered death on the cross for us all.
 A record of this bright display will live in the memory of man, for through it the pupil in the military school was in tears and sorrow.
 Dark days and cold nights also passed over the old bell, and it noticed them not; but the bell in the man's heart felt it to be a gloomy time.
 The corpse lay in a bedroom, near to the one in which we sat, and the old man was in great distress and weeping like a child.
 He spoke to my father, and to a few neighbors who were there, of how lonely he should feel now she was gone, and how good and true she, his dead wife, had been during the number of years that they had passed through life together, and how they had become acquainted, and learnt to love each other.
 And the old man who had spoken of all this shook his head mournfully, and said, "Forgotten!
 Ah, yes, everything will be forgotten!"
 The little boy one day heard his parents say, "The old man opposite is very well off, but is terribly lonely."
 "I cannot endure it," said the tin soldier, who stood on a shelf, "it is so lonely and dull here.
 I have been accustomed to live in a family, and I cannot get used to this life.
 I cannot bear it.
 No, it is all lonely in the old man's house.
 Oh, I cannot bear it."
 "Ah, but I never see any, and I don't know them," said the tin soldier, "and I cannot bear it."
 "I cannot bear it any longer," said the tin soldier; "I have wept tears of tin, it is so melancholy here.
 Let me go to the wars, and lose an arm or a leg, that would be some change; I cannot bear it.
 I have had visits from mine, and you may believe me it is not altogether pleasant.
 Ah, really he must be very happy; I cannot endure this life."
 "I will go to the wars!
 I will go to the wars!" cried the tin soldier as loud as he could, and threw himself down on the floor.
 He was to be taken to the country to be buried there in his own grave; so they carried him away; no one followed him, for all his friends were dead; and the little boy kissed his hand to the coffin as the hearse moved away with it.
 And then he told his wife about the old house and the old man, and of the tin soldier which he had sent across, because he thought the old man was lonely; and he related the story so clearly that tears came into the eyes of the young wife for the old house and the old man.
 "Oh, how dreadfully lonely he must have been," said she.
 He bent his head mournfully, and sighed in deep sorrow, as an unquiet spirit might sigh.
 And the dead man answered, "No one has sung the deeds of my life; they are dead and forgotten.
 Song doth not carry them forth over the lands, nor into the hearts of men; therefore I have no rest and no peace."
 She pitied the little singing-bird, and so did all the other ducks who were not Portuguese.
 "Poor little creature!" they said, one after another, as they came up.
 "Tweet," he cried; "you trod very hard upon me, madam."
 "Don't be angry," said the little bird; "the 'tweet' slipped out of my beak unawares."
 "Why are you angry with me?" replied the little singing-bird, "what have I done?"
 "It was sunshine here yesterday," said the little bird, "but to-day it is cloudy and the air is close."
 There was nothing to envy here, so they all showed a great deal of pity, even the two Chinese.
 "We shall never have another singing-bird again amongst us; he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and then they wept with such a noisy, clucking sound, that all the other fowls clucked too, but the ducks went about with redder eyes afterwards.
 Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady; she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to the clergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I will take care of her."
 During the whole week she was sad and wept many bitter tears, but when Sunday came again she said: "Now I have suffered and striven enough.
 On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was asked whether she wished to go too; but, with tears in her eyes, she looked sadly at her crutches.
 Here she sat down with her hymn-book, and as she was reading it with a pious mind, the wind carried the notes of the organ over to her from the church, and in tears she lifted up her face and said: "O God! help me!"
 I wish I had an estate for your sake."
 Yes, I have had great experience of this kind, but my greatest grief was for the garter- the girdle I meant to say- that jumped into the wash-tub.
 I have a great deal on my conscience, and it is really time I should be turned into white paper."
 If I only knew how to manage to move away from this place,- I should so like to move.
 If I could, I would slide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do; but I don't understand how; I don't even know how to run."
 Ah, I still dream of that stove.
 "I was obliged," replied the yard-dog.
 "They turned me out of doors, and chained me up here.
 'Bone for bone,' I thought; but they were so angry, and from that time I have been fastened with a chain, and lost my bone.
 I can't talk any more like other dogs.
 Away, away, that is the end of it all."
 "I can endure it no longer," said he; "how beautiful it looks when it stretches out its tongue?"
 But he did not enjoy it; how, indeed, could he enjoy anything when he was "stove sick?"
 They could not hear me, and to go to them was quite out of my power.
 Oh, if I could only get them safe on land!
 I escaped fortunately as far as the threshold of the door; but there I fell down and remained: I could go no farther.
 The flames rushed out towards me, flickered on the window, and rose high above the roof.
 "We will take it to the naughty boy, and he will cry because we have brought him a little dead brother.
 "You are right," said the emperor, and began to cry like a little child.
 There she stood and cried, the swineherd scolded her, and the rain came down in torrents.
 "Alas, unfortunate creature that I am!" said the princess, "I wish I had accepted the prince.
 Oh, how wretched I am!"
 Fortunately she scrambled out of the bucket; but she fell into the water with a terrible flop, and had to lie sick for three days with pains in her back.
 And the little Toad came up and expressed her sympathy.
 Waldemar Daa remained for a time silent and thoughtful.
 His daughters wept; all the people in the mansion wiped their eyes, but Lady Daa had driven away, and I drove away too," said the Wind.
 Far in the interior of the wood, where a noisy swarm of laborers were working, stood Waldemar Daa and his three daughters, and all were laughing at the wild cries of the birds, excepting one, the youngest, Anna Dorothea, who felt grieved to the heart; and when they made preparations to fell a tree that was almost dead, and on whose naked branches the black stork had built her nest, she saw the poor little things stretching out their necks, and she begged for mercy for them, with the tears in her eyes.
 I heard him sighing like a soul in despair; I heard him praying, and I noticed how he held his breath.
 Ida and Anna Dorothea wept bitterly, Joanna stood, pale and proud, biting her lips till the blood came; but what could that avail?
 "'O-h, o-h,' she sighed; for people can sigh like the moaning of the wind among the reeds and rushes.
 'O-h, o-h,' she would say, 'no bell sounded at thy burial, Waldemar Daa.
 I suppose he is under the ground now; and Ida- alas! alas! it is not ended yet; miserable that I am!
 Kind Heaven, grant me that I may die.'
 Her eyes were glazing, and her heart breaking; but so it would have been, even had the sun not shone that morning on Anna Dorothea.
 No one but the king himself can pass in or out, for there has been a prophecy that she will marry a common soldier, and the king cannot bear to think of such a marriage."
 The soldier longed very much to see the princess once more, so he sent for the dog again in the night to fetch her, and to run with her as fast as ever he could.
 So they felt it would be useless to search any farther.
 Oh, how dark and disagreeable it was as he sat there, and the people said to him, "To-morrow you will be hanged."
 The boy searched everywhere for it, but he searched in vain, for it could not be found; it was gone.
 "I know very well where she is," sighed the top; "she is in the swallow's nest, and has married the swallow."
 The more the top thought of this, the more he longed for the ball.
 In this snug retreat sat a duck on her nest, watching for her young brood to hatch; she was beginning to get tired of her task, for the little ones were a long time coming out of their shells, and she seldom had any visitors.
 I wonder how long this is to last, I am quite tired of it;" and she seated herself again on the nest.
 "See, children, that is the way of the world," said the mother duck, whetting her beak, for she would have liked the eel's head herself.
 "He is too big," they all said, and the turkey cock, who had been born into the world with spurs, and fancied himself really an emperor, puffed himself out like a vessel in full sail, and flew at the duckling, and became quite red in the head with passion, so that the poor little thing did not know where to go, and was quite miserable because he was so ugly and laughed at by the whole farmyard.
 "They are afraid of me because I am ugly," he said.
 Here he remained the whole night, feeling very tired and sorrowful.
 So the duckling sat in a corner, feeling very low spirited, till the sunshine and the fresh air came into the room through the open door, and then he began to feel such a great longing for a swim on the water, that he could not help telling the hen.
 All this was very sad for the poor little duckling.
 The door stood open; the poor creature could just manage to slip out among the bushes, and lie down quite exhausted in the newly fallen snow.
 It would be very sad, were I to relate all the misery and privations which the poor little duckling endured during the hard winter; but when it had passed, he found himself lying one morning in a moor, amongst the rushes.
 The duckling remembered the lovely birds, and felt more strangely unhappy than ever.
 "I will fly to those royal birds," he exclaimed, "and they will kill me, because I am so ugly, and dare to approach them; but it does not matter: better be killed by them than pecked by the ducks, beaten by the hens, pushed about by the maiden who feeds the poultry, or starved with hunger in the winter."
 "Kill me," said the poor bird; and he bent his head down to the surface of the water, and awaited death.
 But they did not know what endless misery he had brought upon other countries, nor did they hear the sighs and lamentations which rose up from the debris of the destroyed cities.
 These kings had to kneel at his and his courtiers' feet when they sat at table, and live on the morsels which they left.
