 You met, oh, how often!
 Then he would say he had been out, yet he knew nothing of the green forest in its spring verdure, till a neighbor's son brought him a green bough from a beech-tree.
 One spring day the neighbor's boy brought him some field-flowers, and among them was one to which the root still adhered.
 "But how do you know all this?" asked the child whom the angel was carrying to heaven.
 "A difference!" cried the sunbeam, as he kissed the blooming apple-branch, and then kissed the yellow dandelion out in the fields.
 I am only a woman and a sinner before God, but I should not have the heart to let even the worst sinner burn for ever, and how could our Lord to do so, who is so infinitely good, and who knows how the wickedness comes from without and within?
 No, I am unable to imagine that, although you say so."
 The pastor raised himself in bed and stretched his arms towards her, saying, "Not even you can find eternal rest!
 You suffer, you best and most pious woman?"
 "And can I not obtain rest in the grave for you?"
 "Yes, therein, as I believed, as I knew it," said the pastor, "are living those who are abandoned to the eternal fire."
 "He is but a poor fool, and not doomed to be tortured eternally by fire!"
 "Only a fool!"
 "He is ill!
 That is madness- a joyless madness- besieged by fear and dreadful dreams!"
 "You are killing the unfortunate man," said the pastor, and as he stretched out his hand to protect him who already suffered too much, the scene changed.
 "An organist!" exclaimed the lady, who had never heard the word 'obelisk.'
 "Good heavens!" she exclaimed.
 "Oh, the poor people!
 And you saw all that with your own eyes?"
 He placed a pencil sketch on the table; and mamma, who had been over-powered with the appearance of the colored plates, threw a glance at the pale drawing and cried in astonishment, "What, did you see it throw up white fire?"
 "Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the farrier.
 "Golden shoes for you, indeed!"
 "But why does the horse have golden shoes?" asked the farrier; "of course you understand the reason?"
 "Understand!
 "Do you call this beautiful?
 "How conceited you are!" exclaimed the beetle.
 "Fly about as a butterfly, indeed! what of that.
 "None of them are engaged yet," said their mother, and the beetle maidens tittered again, this time quite in confusion.
 "I have never seen greater beauties, even in the royal stables," exclaimed the beetle, who was now resting himself.
 The lake was not very large, but to the beetle it seemed an ocean, and he was so astonished at its size that he fell over on his back, and kicked out his legs.
 "And there's a poor little creature bound fast in it," said another.
 He had known the nun right well, and he thought of her, and his heart beat quicker as he thought.
 When the others arrived at the willow trees, where the confectioner had put up his stall, they said: "Now we are out here; the bell does not in reality exist- it is only something that people imagine!"
 "Sayest thou so?" replied Olaf Hase.
 "Hold, brother!
 The bottle did not behold the light of day again, until it was unpacked with the rest in the wine merchant's cellar, and, for the first time, rinsed with water, which caused some very curious sensations.
 What a strange sensation it was to have the cork drawn for the first time!
 "What trouble they have taken with that bottle over yonder!" said one, and very likely it is broken after all."
 But the bottle was not broken, and, better still, it understood every word that was said: this language it had heard at the furnaces and at the wine merchant's; in the forest and on the ship,- it was the only good old language it could understand.
 Then it began to descend much more rapidly than the rabbit had done, made somersaults in the air, and felt itself quite young and unfettered, although it was half full of wine.
 And the willow-tree nodded his head, as if he would say, "Indeed I do."
 Then the sparrows asked why he was weeping, when all around him seemed so cheerful.
 Do you not smell the sweet perfume from flower and bush?
 Wherefore do you weep, old willow-tree?"
 He was just about to make her an offer, when, close by the maiden, he saw a pod, with a withered flower hanging at the end.
 "Oh, indeed; and you will be like her some day," said he; and he flew away directly, for he felt quite shocked.
 And then what a number of subscriptions to charities, and what innocent verses!
 As if these things were of any consequence!
 Why did he not leave them alone?
 Who would trouble themselves about such trifles? especially at a comedy, where every one is expected to be amused.
 Here rests,- ah, it makes one feel mournful to think of him!- but here rests a man who, during sixty-seven years, was never remembered to have said a good thing; he lived only in the hope of having a good idea.
 What a miser she was!
 I come here often, and if any of my friends, or those who are not my friends, are too much for me, I go out and choose a plot of ground in which to bury him or her.
 Then I bury them, as it were; there they lie, dead and powerless, till they come back new and better characters.
 Then, if any of our friends act absurdly, no one need to be vexed about it.
 Then the cloak was removed, and she found herself in a large hall, of wide-spreading dimensions, in which there was a subdued light, like twilight, reigning, and in a moment her child appeared before her, smiling, and more beautiful than ever; with a silent cry she pressed him to her heart.
 Never had she listened to such tones as these; they came from beyond a large dark curtain which separated the regions of death from the land of eternity.
 Then her husband asked, "From whence hast thou all at once derived such strength and comforting faith?"
 No, the yard cock is really a cock!
 "Garden plant!" he said to the cucumber, and in that one word his deep learning showed itself, and it forgot that he was pecking at her and eating it up.
 "Better to crow than to be puffed up and break off!
 In their pride they did not see the little daisy, which looked over to them and thought, "How rich and beautiful they are!
 "Ugh!" sighed the daisy, "that is terrible; now they are done for."
 Alas!
 "What coarse work!" said the darning-needle, "I shall never get through.
 I shall break!- I am breaking!" and sure enough she broke.
 "High-born!" said the darning-needle, "no indeed, but so haughty.
 Ah!
 "Hallo!" cried one, as he pricked himself with the darning-needle, "here's a fellow for you."
 "Good heavens, how it crushes!" said the darning-needle.
 "I shall be sick now.
 You prayed for him, but it was no good, he was to ride until his limbs were paralysed; but you stole down to him, as I steal now to you, you yourself put little stones under each of his feet that he might have support, nobody saw it, or they pretended not to see it, for you were then the young gracious mistress.
 Years passed; then one day she met the old friend and sweetheart in the street; he looked ill and miserable, and she could not help asking him, "How are you?"
 All the thousands of little creatures hopped and sprang and tugged at one another, and ate each other up.
 "Can one not persuade them to live in peace and quietness, so that each one may mind his own business?"
 "What have you there?" asked another old magician, who had no name- and that was the best thing about him.
 It looked really like a great town reflected there, in which all the people were running about without clothes.
 But it was still more terrible to see how one beat and pushed the other, and bit and hacked, and tugged and mauled him.
 "Look! look! his leg is longer than mine!
 Bah!
 Away with it!
 "That's funny!" said the magician.
 "Why, one can see that easily enough," said the other.
 "It's a drop of puddle water!" said Kribble-Krabble.
 I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes!"
 "My word!
 I'll be in it too!" cried Jack the Dullard; and his two brothers burst out laughing at him, and rode away.
 "Dullard!" exclaimed the brothers, "what are you going to do with that?"
 "Hallo, here I am again! just see what I have found now: you don't find that on the high road every day!"
 "Most certainly I shall," replied Jack the Dullard; and again the brothers laughed and rode on, and thus they got far in advance of him; but- "Hallo- hop rara!" and there was Jack the Dullard again.
 "It is getting better and better," he cried.
 "It is dreadfully hot here!" observed the first brother.
 "Baa!" there he stood like a baa-lamb.
 "Baa!"
 "It is terribly warm here!" he observed.
 "Well, it's most abominably hot here."
 Hark, what a buzzing and humming there is!"
 "They are coming! they are coming!" he cried.
 "Is that a hill?" said the youngest of the boys, pointing to the elf hill, "we should call it a hole in Norway."
 "Ho! ho!" said the old goblin, "is that what she means?
 He flew thither; but "hush!" two people were in the arbor,- a handsome young man and a beautiful lady.
 Oh, how his heart did beat!
 "That must be wonderful cloth," thought the emperor.
 "Heaven preserve us!" he thought, and opened his eyes wide, "I cannot see anything at all," but he did not say so.
 The poor old minister tried his very best, but he could see nothing, for there was nothing to be seen.
 "What is this?" thought the emperor, "I do not see anything at all.
 That is terrible!
 Am I stupid?
 Am I unfit to be emperor?
 That would indeed be the most dreadful thing that could happen to me."
 The emperor marched in the procession under the beautiful canopy, and all who saw him in the street and out of the windows exclaimed: "Indeed, the emperor's new suit is incomparable!
 "Good heavens! listen to the voice of an innocent child," said the father, and one whispered to the other what the child had said.
 "But he has nothing on at all," cried at last the whole people.
 "Help! help!" exclaimed the young ladies, but there was no danger, for they quickly extinguished the fire.
 "What does this mean?" thought the tree, "what am I to do here?
 I can hear nothing in a place like this," and he had time enough to think, for days and nights passed and no one came near him, and when at last somebody did come, it was only to put away large boxes in a corner.
 Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax, and pulled it up by the roots; this was painful; then it was laid in water as if they intended to drown it; and, after that, placed near a fire as if it were to be roasted; all this was very shocking.
 "Well, now, this is a surprise; a glorious surprise too," said the paper.
 This is wonderful luck!"
 I am the most honored of all."
 "Ugh," cried the paper, as it burst into a bright flame; "ugh."
 She lay on the sofa asleep, and she was so beautiful that the merchant's son could not help kissing her.
 "'You are talking too much,' said the tinder-box, and the steel struck against the flint till some sparks flew out, crying, 'We want a merry evening, don't we?'
 "'Yes; well in my youth, I lived in a quiet family, where the furniture was polished, the floors scoured, and clean curtains put up every fortnight,' "'What an interesting way you have of relating a story,' said the carpet-broom; 'it is easy to perceive that you have been a great deal in women's society, there is something so pure runs through what you say.'
 The chair-cushion in the corner burst with laughter when she saw it.
 It had disappeared!
 A spark from the fireworks which remained had set it on fire; it was burnt to ashes!
 Soon after, we heard the sound of firing.
 When I awoke, I found myself in a prison; but the room was not worse than our own in the hut.
 They were the same stars, and in the same position over me as when I used to sit in front of our hut at Delphi, and I had almost begun to fancy I was still there, when suddenly there was a splash in the water- Anastasia had fallen in; but in a moment Aphtanides has sprung in after her, and was now holding her up to me.
 "How much you know!"
 I exclaimed, "and what wonders you can relate?"
 Anastasia trembled, and burst into tears.
 You are a clever man; and a practical man; but you understand no more about poetry than that cask yonder."
 But how light the room was!
 The little goblin had never imagined, much less seen or heard of, any sight so glorious as this.
 At last he sighed, "but the student has no jam!"
 Soon after, in the middle of the night, the goblin was awoke by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors, and by the sound of the watchman's horn; for a great fire had broken out, and the whole street appeared full of flames.
 "Fool!" thought the Fire-drum; but it only said, "Dub, dub, dub, rub-a-dub!"
 "Heaven forbid!" said his mother.
 "Now the good God has taken him to Himself!"
 "No!" cried Peter, and he sprang up from his chair.
 She had heard it from the baker's wife, whose husband had it from the burgomaster's own mouth And Peter became as pale as death, and sat down again.
 "Good Heaven! what's the matter with you?" asked his mother.
 "He's grown famous!" said the Fire-drum, and all his native town said the same thing, for the drummer's son, Peter with the red hair- Peter whom they had known as a little boy, running about in wooden shoes, and then as a drummer, playing for the dancers- was become famous!
 "Why, this is horrible; how dreadfully dirty it is!" said the counsellor; and the whole pavement has vanished, and the lamps are all out."
 "What odd figures!" thought he; "they must be returning from some masquerade."
 The counsellor stared with astonishment as he beheld a most strange procession pass before him.
 The astonished counsellor asked what it all meant, and who the gentleman might be.
 "Good gracious!" he exclaimed; "what in the world has happened to the bishop? what can he be thinking about?"
 Then he shook his head and said, "It cannot possibly be the bishop himself."
 "Dear me, what have they been erecting here?" he cried, as he caught sight of the East gate, which in olden times used to stand at the end of East Street.
 "Either I behold a fata morgana, or I must be tipsy," groaned the counsellor.
 What is the matter with me?"
 "I am certainly all wrong," said he, with a sigh; and yet I only drank one glass of punch.
 Not a shop to be seen; nothing but old, wretched, tumble-down houses, just as if I were at Roeskilde or Ringstedt.
 Oh dear!
 I certainly am very queer."
 "Is that to-day's number of the Day?" he asked, quite mechanically, as he saw the woman putting by a large piece of paper.
 "Every-day stories?" asked the bachelor.
 "Goodness me! where am I?" said he.
 It bewildered him as he thought of it.
 "What is this? what does it mean?" said he; but he was obliged to drink with them, for they overpowered the good man with their politeness.
 "One might believe that the country was going back to heathenism," he observed.
 "Is it possible that I have been lying here in the street dreaming?" said he.
 It is quite shocking that one glass of punch should have upset me like this."
 "Well, I declare, there lies a pair of goloshes," said the watchman.
 "That was an ugly dream," said he, "but droll enough.
 "There goes one!" cried he.
 "I am too fat," he said; "I thought my head would be the worst, but I cannot get my body through, that is certain."
 "Ha," he cried, "the blood is rushing to my head, and I shall go mad.
 I believe I am crazy already; oh, I wish I were free, then all these sensations would pass off."
 He started back, quite bewildered with the fright which the goloshes of Fortune had caused him.
 The poor volunteer came out of the last heart in the row quite bewildered.
 "Good gracious!" he sighed, "I must have a tendency to softening of the brain, and here it is so exceedingly hot that the blood is rushing to my head."
 "That is the cause of it all!" he exclaimed, "I must do something in time.
 "Ho!" he cried, jumping down and rushing towards the plunging bath.
 Dear me, how long it seems since I thought of those days!
 "Good gracious, what has come over me?
 I never felt before as I do now; it must be the air of spring.
 What is this?- in my own handwriting, too!
 However did I get all this?
 And here is a letter!"
 "Well, now it is evident I must be dreaming; but I never had such a wild dream as this."
 Fly out! they have forgotten to close the cage, and the window is open at the top.
 Fly, fly!"
 "Heaven preserve us!" said he; "How did I get up here and fall asleep in this way?
 Grand, dark, and gloomy appeared the landscape around him.
 "Eccellenza, miserabili!" they exclaimed, stretching forth their diseased limbs.
 Oh, how cold the water is!
 "Oh, you poor thing; how you do work, standing there in the water!" she exclaimed.
 "And so he spoke to you in that way, did he, my child?" said the washer-woman, and her lips trembled as she spoke.
 How much has happened to me from that house!"
 "Dead!" cried the laundress, turning pale as death.
 "Is he dead?" she exclaimed.
 "Dear me, you are ill indeed," said the other woman.
 We complied, and she wrote; but in the midst of the "General War-" she struck fast, sighed deeply, and said, "I am only a woman!"
 PUGGIE DIED!!
 "Listen, what a drumming there is on the burdock-leaves; turn, turn, turn; turn, turn, turn," said the father-snail.
 "What a ridiculous little shoot!" said one.
 When spring came, the plant appeared in full bloom: a more beautiful object than any other plant in the forest.
 "It must be some degenerate species," said he; "I do not know it, and it is not mentioned in any system."
 She knew it would so soon fade; so she took only a single green leaf, carried it home, and laid it in her Bible, where it remained ever green, fresh, and unfading.
 Between the pages of the Bible it still lay when, a few weeks afterwards, that Bible was laid under the young girl's head in her coffin.
 He pulled up the wonderful plant, roots and all, and placed it in his bundle.
 "You did not know, any better!
 "What you have been carving is very beautiful, grandfather," said she.
 But one day Ib succeeded so well in his carving that he made two pieces of wood look really like two little wooden shoes, and he determined to give them as a present to Little Christina.
 First they peeped into the basket containing the eels and the sucking-pig; then they must needs pull out the pig and take it in their hands, and feel it, and touch it; and as they both wanted to hold it at the same time, the consequence was that they let it fall into the water, and the pig sailed away with the stream.
 Here was a terrible disaster.
 In a few minutes they found themselves deep in a thicket, and could no longer see the boat or the shore.
 Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
 Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman, her face quite brown, and her hair of a deep shining black; the whites of her eyes glittered like a Moor's; on her back she carried a bundle, and in her hand a knotted stick.
 She drew out of her pocket three large nuts, in which she told them were hidden the most beautiful and lovely things in the world, for they were wishing nuts.
 Ib and Christina looked at the wishing nuts with wide open eyes.
 "There are ten neckerchiefs in it," she replied, "as well as beautiful dresses, stockings, and a hat and veil."
 But there was not much kernel to be seen; it was what we should call hollow or worm-eaten, and looked as if it had been filled with tobacco or rich black earth.
 "It is just what I expected!" exclaimed Ib.
 One day, in the following spring, there came a knock at the door of the house where Ib's old mother lived; and when they opened it, lo and behold, in stepped the boatman and Christina.
 But let me think it over."
 She was courted and admired by every one; but her master's son, who had been home on a visit, was so much pleased with Christina that he wished to marry her.
 During the two long years which followed, no letter came from Christina to her father; and when at last her father received one from her, it did not speak of prosperity or happiness.
 He searched, and found a large golden armlet of superior workmanship, and it was evident that the plough had disturbed a Hun's grave.
 He searched further, and found more valuable treasures, which Ib showed to the clergyman, who explained their value to him.
 "The best thing," thought Ib; "the very best thing for me,- and found in the earth!
 A strange sensation came over Ib, as he caught sight of it.
 The living, breathing embodiment of Little Christina stood before him, just as he remembered her in the days of her childhood.
 He started as he did so.
 It was Christina of the heath!
 That was very mean.
 "Melancholy! what do you mean?" the little creature would always reply.
 "Over!" repeated the fly; "what is the meaning of all over?
 Up through the clouds came the green summits of the forest trees, and beneath him, the oak saw them rising, and growing higher and higher.
 The root was torn from the ground just at the moment when in his dream he fancied it was being loosened from the earth.
 He fell- his three hundred and sixty-five years were passed as the single day of the Ephemera.
 "The tree is down!
 The old oak,- our landmark on the coast!" exclaimed the sailors.
 "It must have fallen in the storm of last night.
 "I'll gee-up your horses for you," said Big Claus; and seizing a hammer, he struck the one horse of Little Claus on the head, and he fell dead instantly.
 "Is any one up there?" asked the farmer, looking up and discovering Little Claus.
 "Why are you lying up there?
 "Hallo! what have you got in your sack!" asked the farmer.
 "Wonderful!" cried the farmer, starting up and opening the oven door; and there lay all the nice things hidden by the farmer's wife, but which he supposed had been conjured there by the wizard under the table.
 "Oh," cried he, springing backwards, "I saw him, and he is exactly like our sexton.
 How dreadful it is!"
 "Are you mad?" they all cried; "do you think we have money to spend by the bushel?"
 "That is a very wicked man," thought Little Claus; "he meant to kill me.
 Hallo!" cried Little Claus, rushing out of the door, and seizing hold of the landlord by the throat; "you have killed my grandmother; see, here is a great hole in her forehead."
 "Oh, how unfortunate," said the landlord, wringing his hands.
 "How is this?" thought Great Claus; "did I not kill him?
 "How did you get all this money?" asked Great Claus, staring with wide open eyes at his neighbor's treasures.
 "Heaven preserve us!" cried the apothecary, "you are out of your mind.
 "How light he seems now," said he.
 "How is this?" said Great Claus.
 "Did I not drown you just now?"
 "What a lucky fellow you are!" exclaimed Great Claus.
 "Yes, if stories came by themselves; they are so proud, they only come when they please.- But wait," he said suddenly, "there is one.
 In the midst of the tree sat a kindly-looking old woman with a strange dress; it was as green as the leaves, and trimmed with large white blossoms, so that it was difficult to say whether it was real cloth, or the leaves and blossoms of the elder-tree.
 The little boy in bed did not know whether he had dreamt it or heard it told; the teapot stood on the table, but no elder-tree was growing out of it, and the old man who had told the story was on the point of leaving the room, and he did go out.
 I will tell you what to do, and the botanical professor, who lives close by here, will be so surprised.
 Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
 All the flowers came round her directly, and asked if she had hurt herself, especially those who had lain in her bed.
 How the fire burned! and seemed so beautifully warm that the child stretched out her feet as if to warm them, when, lo! the flame of the match went out, the stove vanished, and she had only the remains of the half-burnt match in her hand.
 The little one stretched out her hand towards them, and the match went out.
 In the dawn of morning there lay the poor little one, with pale cheeks and smiling mouth, leaning against the wall; she had been frozen to death on the last evening of the year; and the New-year's sun rose and shone upon a little corpse!
 One night, while she lay in her pretty bed, a large, ugly, wet toad crept through a broken pane of glass in the window, and leaped right upon the table where Tiny lay sleeping under her rose-leaf quilt.
 "What a pretty little wife this would make for my son, said the toad, and she took up the walnut-shell in which little Tiny lay asleep, and jumped through the window with it into the garden.
 Presently a large cockchafer flew by; the moment he caught sight of her, he seized her round her delicate waist with his claws, and flew with her into a tree.
 After a time, all the cockchafers turned up their feelers, and said, "She has only two legs! how ugly that looks."
 Then she laid her head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for it seemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump."
 It was the bird's heart; he was not really dead, only benumbed with the cold, and the warmth had restored him to life.
 "Tweet, tweet," sounded over her head suddenly.
 She looked up, and there was the swallow himself flying close by.
 But how surprised she was to see in the middle of the flower, a tiny little man, as white and transparent as if he had been made of crystal!
 He still lay thinking and thinking, when all at once it seemed as if some one kissed him on his eyes and mouth.
 But now little Tuk was no longer in bed; all in a moment he found himself on horseback.
 One tower after another fell, till at last only one remained standing on the hill where the castle had formerly been.
 All at once everything vanished; but where!
 "Yes, that it has," said she, and then, just as she was going to tell him a great many pretty stories from Holberg's comedies, and about Waldemar and Absalom, she suddenly shrunk up together, and wagged her head as if she were a frog about to spring.
 Then little Tuk saw she was changed into a frog.
 But it was not true; the speaker only wanted to remind him of his name, and to make an APRIL fool of him; for with that fun the fourth generally began his career.
 It is quite a picture to see a half-naked boy clasping the well-formed creature by the head, as he presses his rosy lips against its jaws.
 The Metal Pig raised himself gently, and the boy heard him say quite distinctly, "Hold tight, little boy, for I am going to run;" and away he started for a most wonderful ride.
 The boy was dazzled by so much glitter; for the walls were gleaming with bright colors, all appeared living reality.
 The boy stretched forth his hands towards the light, and at the same moment the Metal Pig started again so rapidly that he was obliged to cling tightly to him.
 The wind whistled in his ears, he heard the church door creak on its hinges as it closed, and it seemed to him as if he had lost his senses- then a cold shudder passed over him, and he awoke.
 Another broken-down staircase led from the gallery, and two Russian sailors running down it almost upset the poor boy.
 This pot she took in her lap, warmed her fingers, and pushed the boy with her elbow.
 Suddenly he fancied he heard feet outside going pit-a-pat.
 But the Metal Pig lay motionless, while the fresh stream gushed forth from its mouth.
 He looked down, and there was Bellissima, little smooth-shaven Bellissima, barking as if she would have said, "Here I am too; why are you sitting there?"
 "Bellissima in the street, and not dressed!" as the old lady called it; "what would be the end of this?"
 "Where have you stolen that pretty dog?" they asked; and they took it away from him.
 Certainly sooner than he expected- for all at once down he came from the top of the press, fell on the ground, and was broken to pieces.
 I am very curious to know what the ducks were so startled about; not about us, certainly, although I did say 'peep' to you pretty loudly.
 The other roses looked after their sister, and asked each other, "Where can she be going to?"
 In one of her flights, however it may have happened, she was caught, before she was aware of it, in a horse-hair net which some boys had attached to a tree.
 How she glittered!
 All the sparrows, and even a crow- and an old boy he was too- were startled at the sight; but still they flew after her to learn what kind of strange bird she was.
 "Look at her!
 Look at her!" they all cried.
 "Look at her!
 Look at her" cried her little ones. as she approached the nest.
 "That is certainly a young peacock, for it glitters in all colours; it makes one's eyes ache, as mother told us.
 Peep! that's 'the beautiful'."
 The sparrow spread out her wings once more, then drew them closely to her, and lay dead near the neighbouring family, the beautiful fresh roses.
 In the night the red flames burst through the window and seized the roof, the dry straw blazed up high, and the whole house, together with the young sparrow, was burned.
 "Where is the house?" they asked.
 "Where is the nest?
 All is burned and our strong brother too.
 "Peep!" said the sparrows, "it's nothing.
 Peep! that is 'the beautiful.'
 A "peep" and three foot-scrapings- in this way she had often greeted throughout the year, and no one here had responded, for those who are once parted do not meet every day; and so this greeting had become a habit with her.
 "Peep!" they said sweeping the ground with their tails, and blinking with one eye at the roses, they had not looked at them long before they were convinced that they were their old neighbours.
 But when he came to the words, "the nightingale is the most beautiful of all," he exclaimed, "What is this?
 "Is it possible?" said the lord-in-waiting, "I never imagined it would be a little, plain, simple thing like that.
 It is surprising that we have never heard this before; she will be a great success at court."
 Round its neck hung a piece of ribbon, on which was written "The Emperor of China's nightingale is poor compared with that of the Emperor of Japan's."
 "What strange conduct," said the emperor, when her flight had been discovered; and all the courtiers blamed her, and said she was a very ungrateful creature.
 And after this the real nightingale was banished from the empire, and the artificial bird placed on a silk cushion close to the emperor's bed.
 Then a spring cracked.
 The emperor immediately sprang out of bed, and called for his physician; but what could he do?
 The poor emperor, finding he could scarcely breathe with a strange weight on his chest, opened his eyes, and saw Death sitting there.
 The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor; when, lo! there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."
 "Did you hear what was said?
 "Where? where?" cooed the doves.
 They had plucked out all their feathers.
 "Mr. de Boots, hearing this, kicks up, jingles his spurs, and knocks down three of the side-scenes."
 Mr. Waistcoat seized the old Pipe-head and put him in his pocket; there he lies, and the Waistcoat says: "'You are in my pocket; you can't come out till you promise to unite me to your daughter Glove on the left.
 How different the world, and the people in it, appeared to Anthony now, to what he had thought in his childhood!
 Then he tore away the cloth which covered the basket, and what could equal the surprise of the pious woman, to find that by a miracle, everything in her basket- the wine, the bread- had all been changed into roses.
 "Hallo! how the nightcap burns!" he exclaimed, as he tore it from his bead.
 "Dear me! how singular.
 Why that must be the grave-stone of Preben Schwane and his wife."
 I was, as I have said, a boy, and only stood by and listened to what the others said; but it filled me with a strange emotion to listen to the old man, and to watch how the color rose in his cheeks as he spoke of the days of their courtship, of how beautiful she was, and how many little tricks he had been guilty of, that he might meet her.
 "Forgotten!
 And indeed nobody was home, for the old man was dead.
 "Oh dear, what was that?" she exclaimed, as something pricked her.
 It was- only think!- it was really the tin soldier, the very same which had been lost up in the old man's room, and had been hidden among old wood and rubbish for a long time, till it sunk into the earth, where it must have been for many years.
 "Oh, no! no! pray let me dry," implored the little bird.
 The Portuguese awoke too, and rushed over to the other side: in so doing she trod upon the little singing-bird.
 The little bird was quite taken aback, for he meant it kindly.
 She said that it was a shocking thing to do, that it was very improper, and that Karen was always to go to church in future in black shoes, even if they were old.
 "Dear me, what pretty dancing-shoes!" said the soldier.
 But it was the old soldier with the red beard; he sat there nodding his head and said: "Dear me, what pretty dancing shoes!"
 "Upon my word," said the shirt-collar, "I have never seen anything so slim and delicate, so neat and soft before.
 "Engaged!" cried the shirt collar, "now there is no one left to propose to;" and then he pretended to despise all love-making.
 How that great red thing up there is staring at me!"
 The Snow Man felt quite a strange sensation come over him; it was very odd, he knew not what it meant, and he could not account for it.
 "What a strange crackling I feel within me," he said.
 I must go in there and lean against her, even if I have to break the window."
 "You must never go in there," said the yard-dog, "for if you approach the stove, you'll melt away, away."
 "Why, there's the shovel that is used for cleaning out the stove, fastened to the pole."
 People said of this fifth brother, "There is something very precise about him; he has a good head-piece, but he does nothing."
 The eldest brother, he who fabricated bricks, soon discovered that each brick, when finished, brought him in a small coin, if only a copper one; and many copper pieces, if placed one upon another, can be changed into a shining shilling; and at whatever door a person knocks, who has a number of these in his hands, whether it be the baker's, the butcher's, or the tailor's, the door flies open, and he can get all he wants.
 "How I left the world?" she replied; "why, I can scarcely tell you.
 "Just hear what those boys are singing," said the young storks; "they say we shall be hanged and roasted."
 "Then we may be killed after all, as the boys say; and hark! they are singing again."
 "Oh, o- h!" cried the young storks.
 It was a terrible night, and in the morning- only think!- nearly all the shields had changed places.
 The princess touched it and nearly began to cry.
 "For shame, pa," she said, "it is not artificial, it is natural!"
 "What does this mean?" he said, when he saw that his daughter was kissing the swineherd, and then hit their heads with his shoe just as the swineherd received the sixty-eighth kiss.
 How great it is! how bright it is!
 Oh, how it seems to shine in my head!
 "What a number of different creatures there are that I never knew! and how beautiful and great the world is!
 "How green it is here! how beautiful it is here!"
 "Aha, it has allies," quoth the Fowl.
 "How high up they live!" thought the Toad.
 "If one could only get as high as that!"
 "A jewel!" cried the naturalist.
 "What a great man that is yonder! and how high he sits!
 Higher than ever I saw any one sit yet; and how he can swim!" she cried, as the Stork soared away through the air with outspread pinions.
 "Quunk!- ah!"
 'Look at the alchymic glass,' he cried; 'something glows in the crucible, pure and heavy.'
 He lifted it with a trembling hand, and exclaimed in a voice of agitation, 'Gold! gold!'
 All passed away, passed away!
 "Ah!" there sat the dog, with the eyes as large as teacups, staring at him.
 Good gracious, what a quantity of gold there was! enough to buy all the sugar-sticks of the sweet-stuff women; all the tin soldiers, whips, and rocking-horses in the world, or even the whole town itself There was, indeed, an immense quantity.
 The soldier immediately cut off her head, and there she lay on the ground.
 He found the tinder-box, but no sooner had he struck a few sparks from the flint and steel, than the door flew open and the dog with eyes as big as teacups, whom he had seen while down in the tree, stood before him, and said, "What orders, master?"
 The dog disappeared instantly, and before the soldier could even look round, he returned with the princess.
 Then the dog ran back with the princess; but in the morning, while at breakfast with the king and queen, she told them what a singular dream she had had during the night, of a dog and a soldier, that she had ridden on the dog's back, and been kissed by the soldier.
 "And here is one, and there is another!" they all exclaimed; for there were crosses on all the doors in every direction.
 Therefore in the morning the king and queen found out where their daughter had been, and the soldier was taken up and put in prison.
 When it was over, two boys happened to pass by, and one of them said, "Look, there is a tin soldier.
 But the ninth time it rose in the air, it remained away, and did not return.
 Oh dear, what a set of rabble I have got amongst!"
 "Thank goodness, here comes one of my own class, with whom I can talk," said the ball, examining the gilded top.
 "Ah," she exclaimed, "here is a gilt top."
 It was very large and ugly.
 The duck stared at it and exclaimed, "It is very large and not at all like the others.
 "Oh," said the mother, "that is not a turkey; how well he uses his legs, and how upright he holds himself!
 "You are exceedingly ugly," said the wild ducks, "but that will not matter if you do not want to marry one of our family."
 "Pop, pop," sounded in the air, and the two wild geese fell dead among the rushes, and the water was tinged with blood.
 "Oh what a prize!" she exclaimed, "I hope it is not a drake, for then I shall have some duck's eggs.
 The duckling had never seen any like them before.
 As they mounted higher and higher in the air, the ugly little duckling felt quite a strange sensation as he watched them.
 He became exhausted at last, and lay still and helpless, frozen fast in the ice.
 His own image; no longer a dark, gray bird, ugly and disagreeable to look at, but a graceful and beautiful swan.
 THERE lived once upon a time a wicked prince whose heart and mind were set upon conquering all the countries of the world, and on frightening the people; he devastated their countries with fire and sword, and his soldiers trod down the crops in the fields and destroyed the peasants' huts by fire, so that the flames licked the green leaves off the branches, and the fruit hung dried up on the singed black trees.
 Many a poor mother fled, her naked baby in her arms, behind the still smoking walls of her cottage; but also there the soldiers followed her, and when they found her, she served as new nourishment to their diabolical enjoyments; demons could not possibly have done worse things than these soldiers!
 He erected magnificent palaces, churches, and halls, and all who saw these splendid buildings and great treasures exclaimed admiringly: "What a mighty prince!"
 The conquered kings were chained up with golden fetters to his chariot when he drove through the streets of his city.
